



Download Request: Select Items: 1-499
Time Of Request: Thursday, September 07, 2017  13:57:04 EST
Send To:

MEGADEAL, ACADEMIC UNIVERSE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY-RALEIGH
LIBRARY
RALEIGH, NC


Terms: (hospital ranking)


Source: Company Profiles and Directories;US Law Reviews and Journals,
Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Newspaper Stories,
Combined Papers
Combined Source: Company Profiles and Directories;US Law Reviews and Journals,
Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Newspaper Stories,
Combined Papers
Project ID:



                               1 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday

Hospital rankings list MWH No. 8 in Virginia

BYLINE: Chelyen Davis, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 621 words


July 17--Mary Washington Hospital has been ranked eighth in Virginia and seventh
in the Washington Metro area by U.S. News and World Report.

The rankings come as part of the annual U.S. News Best Hospitals evaluation.

MWH tied for 8th out of 128 hospitals around the state--Carilion Roanoke
Memorial Hospital, Inova Loudoun Hospital, and Martha Jefferson Hospital in
Charlottesville also earned an eighth-place ranking.

Mary Washington Hospital placed sixth in U.S. News' rankings last year.

MWH ranked seventh out of 58 hospitals in the Washington area, and tied with
Inova Loudoun Hospital among eight Northern Virginia hospitals that were
evaluated.

The hospital had six speciality areas recognized as "high performing"--diabetes
and endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, and pulmonology. The hospital had eight
high-performing specialities in 2012.

According to the report, the hospital performed at near the level of nationally
ranked hospitals in those six areas.

"Our U.S. News rankings acknowledge that our highly skilled team of physicians,
nurses and other staff provide the best quality care for our community," Kevin
Van Renan, senior vice president and administrator of Mary Washington, said in a
news release.

According to the release, the U.S. News report evaluated almost 4,800 hospitals
around the country for the report, which is in its 24th year.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," Avery Comarow, U.S. News health rankings editor, said in the news
release. "Only about 15 percent of hospitals are recognized for their high
performance as among their region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a
national ranking in any specialty."

Virginia has four hospitals that are nationally ranked, and all were in the top
four in the state rankings. In those state rankings, Sentara Norfolk General
Hospital and VCU Medical Center in Richmond both were ranked No. 1. Inova
Fairfax Hospital came in third, and University of Virginia Medical Center came
in fourth.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore was rated best in the nation by the report.

The rankings don't include military and VA hospitals because, U.S. News said,
the government doesn't release data for those hospitals.

The region's smaller hospitals--Spotsylvania Regional Medical Center, the
MWH-affiliated Stafford Hospital, Culpeper Regional Hospital and Fauquier
Hospital--were not ranked in the report.

Sentara Northern Virginia Medical Center in Woodbridge, formerly called Potomac
Hospital, ranked 13th in Virginia, 12th in the Washington Metro area, and was
recognized as high-performing in two specialty areas: geriatrics and nephrology.

According to data in the report, Mary Washington Hospital has 437 beds. The
hospital had 23,133 admissions in the latest year for which data are available.
It performed 5,179 annual inpatient and 3,498 outpatient surgeries. Its
emergency room had 86,193 visits.

The report also includes patient responses to a federally written satisfaction
survey.

According to those surveys, 59 percent of MWH patients gave the hospital the
highest satisfaction ranking --the average for Virginia hospitals was 66
percent. Thirteen percent gave it a low rating--the statewide average is 10
percent.

Mary Washington received "good" ratings for doctor responsiveness and
willingness to listen and explain things clearly, and for information given upon
discharge about what the patient needs to do next.

Chelyen Davis: 540/368-5028

cdavis@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2013 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130717-FB-Hospital-rankings-list-MWH-No-8-in-Virginia-0717-20130717

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2013 The Free Lance-Star


                               2 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday

Utah hospitals 'high-performing' but not 'best' in annual hospital rankings
report

BYLINE: By Jennifer Dobner The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 581 words


Not one Utah hospital lands on the top tier of the U.S. News & World Report Best
Hospital Rankings released Tuesday.

The 24th annual report ranks hospitals nationwide based on performance in each
of 16 medical specialities, including cancer treatment, cardiology and heart
surgery, gynecology, neurology, orthopedics and others. Some 147 hospitals
performed well-enough to earn a national ranking in one or more specialities.
Another 591 were ranked "high-performing" in respective states and regional
areas, including eight Utah hospitals.

The rankings are designed to help patients and families find the best sources
for high-quality medical care in their communities.

Salt Lake City's LDS Hospital earned a national "best" ranking in 2012-2013 for
its gynecology care and was first among Utah hospitals. But in 2013-2014
rankings, the hospital missed being labeled "best" for any speciality and
slipped to third among Utah facilities behind its sister-hospital, Intermountain
Medical Center in Murray, and the University of Utah Hospital, which was second.

Intermountain Healthcare spokesman Jess Gomez on Monday said he had not yet seen
the scores behind the rankings and couldn't speak in any detail about the
report.

"But we are very proud that Intermountain hospitals are consistently ranked
among the best in the nation, and in the state, each year by numerous rankings
services," Gomez said. "This recognition is a tribute to all of our employees
and physician partners who strive to provide the highest-quality of patient care
possible."

U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow also could not pinpoint a
specific reason for the change in the LDS Hospital ranking.

"A hospital might be high-performing in six or eight or 10 specialties one year.
But the lower you go, the more scores tend to cluster," Comarow said in an
e-mail. "If the hospital's scores were toward the lower part of the range in
some number of those specialties, then it is entirely possible that the next
year it might be pushed out by other hospitals with improved performance , or
drop out on its own if its performance falls off just a little."

Metro and state rankings in the report are based strictly on the number of
specialties in which a hospital is nationally ranked and/or high-performing and
"it's not surprising to see a fair degree of shift year to year," Comarow said.

The best hospitals are chosen according to a matrix that takes into account such
things as nurse staffing levels, patient volume, patient survival and safety
data, the availability of clinically proven technologies. That statistical data
is drawn from federal health care agencies and professional associations. The
results of a physician survey also were considered.

To earn the top spot in the state rankings, Intermountain Medical Center was
labeled high-performing, in eight speciality areas including, cardio and heart
surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery,
geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology, pulmonology and urology.

jdobner@sltrib.com Alt Heads:

Utah hospitals 'high-performing' but not 'best' in annual hospital rankings
report Utah Hospital Rankings

1 » Intermountain Medical Center, Murray

2 » University of Utah Health Care, Salt Lake City

3 » LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City

4 » Utah Valley Regional Medical Center, Provo

5 » (tie). McKay-Dee Hospital Center, Ogden

5 » (tie) St. Mark's Hospital, Salt Lake City

7 » Timpanogos Regional Hospital, Orem

8 » Dixie Regional Medical Center, St. George

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Intermountain Medical Center in Murray has earned a national "best"
ranking for 2013-2014 by U.S. News & World Report.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Hackensack University Medical Center: U.S. News & World Report Ranks
HackensackUMC as the Number One Hospital in NJ, Among Top Three New York Metro
Area Hospitals

LENGTH: 504  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- U.S. News & World Report today reported that Hackensack
University Medical Center is the number one hospital in New Jersey and one of
the top three New York metro area hospitals.



The strong rankings for HackensackUMC appear in the 2013-14 U.S. News Best
Hospitals, published online today.

"This year's rankings demonstrate, once again, that New Jersey residents don't
need to cross the Hudson to get the best possible healthcare," said Robert C.
Garrett, president and chief executive officer of Hackensack University Health
Network. "Further, our ranking in the top three hospitals in the entire NY Metro
area, among some of the best hospitals in the world, suggests residents
throughout the region should actively consider HackensackUMC for their health
needs."

Climbing from number four to three in metro New York, the hospital also garnered
10 national rankings-up from the last year's lists.

In addition to the Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital recently being named
among the top 50 best children's hospitals for neurology and neurosurgery,
HackensackUMC received nine national rankings in this year's review.  They are:

* Cancer

* Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* Ear, Nose & Throat

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

* Geriatrics

* Neurology & Neurosurgery

* Orthopedics

* Pulmonology

* Urology

The medical center was also listed as high-performing in the New York metro area
in: Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gynecology, and Nephrology.

"These rankings are not only a testament to the world-class care our
HackensackUMC team implements, but also reflects the supportive and encouraging
environment that HackensackUMC provides to its medical team," said Ihor S.
Sawczuk, M.D., executive vice president and chief medical officer.

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.  The Best Hospital rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize hospitals
that excel in treating the most challenging patients.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Parkview receives national ranking

BYLINE: Gayle Perez, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


July 18--Parkview Medical Center is ranked among the nation's top hospitals for
its work in three speciality areas, according to recent U.S. News & World Report
rankings.

The U.S. News' 24th annual Best Hospital rankings, released Tuesday, rated
Parkview as a high-performing hospital in the areas of neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics and pulmonology.

This is the third consecutive year that Parkview has been recognized by U.S.
News.

"The entire Parkview team of employees, physicians, volunteers and board
members, all played a key role in improving patient care and outcomes as well as
enhancing our customer service," said Mike Baxter, president and CEO of
Parkview. "A lot of hard work from all these groups is what has ultimately led
to Parkview being recognized on this national scale."

To be rated among the top hospitals in the nation, Parkview had to be listed
among the top 25 percent of the qualifying hospitals.

Along with the national ranking, Parkview also was ranked No. 11 in Colorado and
was rated the top hospital for Southeastern Colorado. Parkview was the only
hospital south of Denver to be honored as a highperforming hospital in any
speciality area.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News' health ranking editor.

"Only about 15 percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as
among their region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national
ranking."

The rankings and the methodology used in the ratings are available at The
Chieftain website, chieftain.com.

The rankings also will be available in print form at bookstores and newsstands
beginning Aug. 27.

gperez@chieftain.com

___ (c)2013 The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, Colo.) Visit The Pueblo Chieftain
(Pueblo, Colo.) at www.chieftain.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130718-PB-Parkview-receives-national-ranking-0718-20130718

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2013 The Pueblo Chieftain


                               5 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                   Philly.com

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

CHOP falls to No. 2 in US News' pediatric hospital rankings

BYLINE: Kelly O'Shea, Senior Health Producer, Philly.com

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 227 words


June 09--U.S. News & World Report has named Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
the second best pediatric hospital in the nation in its 2015-16 rankings.

CHOP has taken top honors (or tied with another hospital) as the No. 1 pediatric
hospital since 2011, but this year, Boston Children's Hospital beat out CHOP in
the pediatric "honor roll". CHOP is the only pediatric hospital in the tri-state
region named to the prestigious list.

In the 2014 rankings, CHOP tied with Boston Children's Hospital for the No. 1
spot, with a ranking in the top three spots in eight out of 10 specialties.

This year, of the 10 specialties, CHOP ranked first in neonatology and
orthopedics. It scored in second or third place in six other specialties:
cancer, endocrinology, gastroenterology, neurology, pulmonology, and urology.

To conduct the rankings, U.S. News raked through data from 184 pediatric
hospitals and survey results from more than 2,800 pediatric specialists. To make
the best pediatric hospitals honor roll, a hospital had to score near the top of
at least three of 10 medical specialties ranked. Scores were determined by
clinical outcomes, efficiency of care and care-related resources like adequate
nursing staff.

Check out more hospital rankings on health.usnews.com.

___ (c)2015 Philly.com Visit Philly.com at www.philly.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150609-PHI-CHOP-falls-to-No-2-in-US-News-pediatric-hospital-rankings
-0609-20150609

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PHI


                                 Copyright 2015


                               6 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Central Penn Business Journal 2016

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Where did local hospitals place in U.S. News rankings?

BYLINE: Roger DuPuis

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 732  words


Penn State Health Milton S. Hershey Medical Center ranked nationally in several
adult and pediatric specialties, and was listed as "high performing" in eight of
the nine types of common procedures and conditions analyzed in U.S. News & World
Report's annual best hospitals analysis, released Tuesday.

Lancaster General Hospital (LGH), meanwhile, is one of only 48 across America to
earn the high ranking designation in all nine categories.

The nine categories

As part of its Best Hospitals rankings and ratings, U.S. News evaluated more
than 4,500 hospitals for their handling of nine surgical procedures and chronic
conditions: Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart bypass
surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), hip replacement, knee replacement and lung cancer surgery.

More than 1,200 hospitals earned a rating of high performing in at least one
procedure or condition. Only 48 received that top rating in all nine areas.
Lancaster General Hospital was the only midstate facility to do so. In
Pennsylvania, Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown also made the cut, as did
Thomas Jefferson University Hospitals in Philadelphia.

U.S. News evaluated data on nearly 5,000 hospitals in 16 adult specialties, nine
adult procedures and conditions and 10 pediatric specialties.

Pennsylvania has nearly 250 hospitals, U.S. News & World Report's annual best
hospitals analysis "meet high U.S. News standards and are ranked in the state,"
the magazine said. Of those, four are in Central Pennsylvania: Hershey Med, LGH,
PinnacleHealth hospitals and WellSpan York Hospital.

Below is a summary of what the report had to say about each of those facilities.

o Overall statewide ranking: 4

o High performing: Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart
bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, COPD, knee replacement and
lung cancer surgery.

o Ranked nationally in two adult specialties (gastroenterology and GI surgery
and orthopedics) and four pediatric specialties (cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, neonatology and orthopedics).

o Also recognized as high performing in six additional specialties: cancer,
geriatrics, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.

"These rankings reflect years of collaboration to enhance quality, safety and
outcomes for our patients," said Dr. A. Craig Hillemeier, dean of Penn State
College of Medicine, CEO of Penn State Health and senior vice president for
health affairs for Penn State. "Moving forward, we must continue to take steps
to ensure that we do right by every patient, every time."

o Read its full ranking U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals
analysis.

o Overall statewide ranking: 6

o High performing: All nine common procedures and conditions

o Also recognized as high performing in four additional specialties:
gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, orthopedics and pulmonology.

"This distinct honor is a result of the extraordinary standard of care that our
physicians and staff are known for," said Jan Bergen, president and CEO of
Lancaster General Health. "This ranking is further evidence of our progress in
helping our community achieve optimal health and an exceptional experience
through innovative and compassionate patient care."

LGH is part of the U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals analysis
(Penn Medicine), all of whose individual hospitals earned top honors in the
rankings.

o Read its full ranking U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals
analysis.

o Overall statewide ranking: 12 (tied with Bryn Mawr Hospital)

o High performing: Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart
bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, COPD, knee replacement and
lung cancer surgery.

o Ranking appears to have been performed before U.S. News & World Report's
annual best hospitals analysis.

o Read its full ranking U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals
analysis.

o Overall statewide ranking: 23 (tied with four others)

o High performing: Colon cancer surgery, heart failure, lung cancer surgery.

o Read its full ranking U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals
analysis.

View the full article from Central Penn Business Journal at U.S. News & World
Report's annual best hospitals analysis. Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media. All
Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Move for evaluation system draws mixed reaction

                                October 10, 1995

Ravi Veloo


Secondary schools and junior colleges are ranked annually. And now, the
Government is considering ways to size up Government and restructured hospitals
against each other. The news, however, is drawing mixed responses from doctors,
hospital administrators and the public. RAVI VELOO reports on Page Two.

HEALTH MINISTRY STUDYING WAYS TO RANK HOSPITALS

FIRST, it was the schools that were sized up against each other. Now, the
Ministry of Health is studying ways to rank government and restructured
hospitals.

Revealing this in response to queries from Life!, the ministry said the aim of
having rankings was to spur the hospitals to be more efficient and improve their
service.

On whether private hospitals would also be involved, the ministry said it was
too early to say, as no decision had been taken on even what performance
indicators should be used.

News that the ministry was studying how to rank hospitals drew mixed responses
from doctors, hospital administrators and the public.

Three concerns were raised:

- Can ranking be done fairly at all?

- Will competition for top spots lead to abuse?

- Even if it can be done fairly, and there is no abuse, what is the point of
ranking, after all?

A LOT of concern from doctors and the public is directed at whether performance
indicators to be used in such rankings would be an accurate reflection of a
hospital's worth.

Indeed, the ministry itself said: "The main problem faced in ranking is how to
ensure that the indicators selected are equitable and compensate for the
variation in the specialities offered and the case-mix of patients seen in
various hospitals."

In Britain and the United States, such indicators include mortality rate,
infection rate, re-admission rate, and availability of high-tech diagnostic and
therapeutic equipment, staff-to-patient ratio, and waiting time at clinics.

A poser is how hospitals here are going to be compared when some, such as the
National Skin Centre and the Singapore National Eye Centre, are so highly
specialised.

The medical director of the Singapore National Eye Centre, Professor Arthur Lim,
indicated some of the difficulties.

While he welcomed the idea of competition, he said that sizing up hospitals
against each other would present inordinate problems.

"How do you compare compassion in the treatment of patients? And how important
is waiting time in a serious condition? It is the outcome that is important," he
said.

Stressing the importance of comparing like with like, he said: "Even with
outcomes, for example, if you compare the results of my cataract operations with
a younger surgeon's, his results will be better for the simple reason that as a
more senior person, I get the more complicated cataract cases."

Other hospital chiefs expressed similar reservations.

The National University Hospital's CEO, Mr Pek Beng Choon, said ranking could be
useful as a form of benchmarking, but cautioned: "Obvious and apparent
indicators such as cancelled admissions and waiting time may be valid, but not
necessarily accurate in reflecting the standard of health care."

But a senior administrator, who asked not be named, said such comments showed
doctors were paying too much mind to the art of doctoring and not enough to the
science of it.

He said: "Dealing with patients is an art, but the practice of medicine is a
science, and a lot of the performance is measurable. Start with some indicators,
and improve them along the way."

On his side, the administrator has the argument that hospitals are ranked in
some countries already, and from press reports, hospitals that came out lower in
the rankings in Britain and the US have pledged to do better, and sometimes
deliver on their promise.

In any case, it appears the Health Ministry here is aware of the

issues.

It told Life!: "In capturing data, there must be standardisation and
comparability. Another problem is in quantifying and measuring health care.

"In health care, quality of care includes cost-efficient care provided by
caring, committed and competent staff. The intangibles are difficult to capture
quantitatively." BUT even if the rankings are accepted as fair, many doctors
have reservations about what might follow.

The Singapore Medical Association, which represents about 60 per cent of all the
doctors in Singapore, opposed the idea, saying: "Ranking can have undesirable
effects."

It said: "Hospital administrators, in their eagerness to achieve a high ranking
for their institutions, may become over-zealous in purchasing the latest
high-tech equipment in order to maintain an edge over other institutions."

The association warned: "Doctors may be inclined to order more investigations
and prescribe more treatments than is really necessary.

"Both situations would result in an increase in health-care costs, which runs
counter to national health policies."

But the chief executive officer of the Toa Payoh Hospital, Mr Liak Teng Lit,
supported the exercise, saying: "I don't think it's wrong to do the ranking."

On concerns such as those the SMA had expressed, he said: "It can happen. But I
argue that as professionals, most of us do not do this kind of thing. We do not
go out of the way to beat the system. There are very few psychopaths in this
business."

The CEO of the Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Dr Judy Lim, gave cautious approval to
ranking, but also noted its potential to go wrong.

Conceding that ranking would be good if it recognised each hospital's intrinsic
strengths, she warned: "The system should not end up pitting one hospital
against another. Such competition will sap precious resources from them."

A Life! poll of 30 people found them divided on the merits of the case.

They were keen to have more information how hospitals compared, but some were
concerned that the pursuit of a higher ranking could lead to hospitals turning
away patients who could not do them proud.

OTHERS questioned the use of ranking hospitals.

The ministry wants ranking because it "serves as one indicator of performance
and a guide on the care provided by the hospitals".

But the Singapore Medical Association said: "We believe the most objective form
of ranking would be peer review and the testimony of patients.

"It is not the waiting time at clinics or the number of MRI machines and liver
transplants performed in hospitals that will influence patients' choice of
hospitals.

"The patient's choice of a hospital will depend on feedback they received from
their friends and relatives who were treated in that hospital."

Those in support of ranking said that it was precisely the lack of accurate
measurements and over-reliance on impressions of friends and relatives that made
an objective ranking by the ministry attractive.

Advertising executive Wong Yock Yin, 24, said: "Anyway, even if I were presented
with rankings by the Health Ministry, I would still check with friends and
relatives for their experiences."

Dr Ajith Damodaran, a general practitioner, said: "The real question is what
kind of care a patient gets. A department may be rated highly, but the quality
of care may differ within the department, depending on which doctor you get and
the circumstances."

He suggested educating the patient to make an informed choice through
questioning his or her doctor.

"Better health care comes from a bottom-up approach when the larger base of
patients demands better care," he said. "Ranking a hospital remains a top-down
approach to improving health care. That is a serious flaw in the system."

Another point was that many indicators used in other countries measured only the
peripherals of health care, such as waiting time and average costs of a stay;
these did not indicate the quality of care.

A consumer raised an ethical issue: "Even if ranking is done by an objective
party like the Health Ministry, isn't the end result a form of advertising for
the hospital?"

Teacher S.K. Lee, 36, said something which seemed to sum up the feelings of
many: "The point of rankings is to spur hospitals to compete. Do you want your
doctor to compete with others? I think how comfortable you are with that idea
will determine where you stand on this issue."


SECTION: Life; (Cover Story); Pg. 1,L2

LENGTH: 1974 words

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Who's up, doc?: How will Singapore General Hospital (above) line up
against the other hospitals? (Page L1)

                 Copyright 1995 The Straits Times Press Limited


                               8 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 28, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Mount Sinai Medical Center: First-Ever National Summit on Hospital Rankings
Demonstrates Impact and Explores Possibilities for Change

LENGTH: 1145  words


New Delhi, Sept. 28 -- At a summit on hospital ranking systems held on September
27, 2012, leaders from the nation's top hospitals and U.S. News & World Report
agreed that its annual "Best Hospitals" list is among the most comprehensive and
useful available. The distinguished group also explored a broad range of ways in
which the methodologies could continue to be improved. Possible improvements
that were discussed include risk adjustment for socioeconomic factors and
projected health outcomes, measurement of scientific and medical innovation,
clinical trial participation, investment in and use of cutting-edge information
such as genomics, and overall patient experience.



The discussion took place at The Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City,
during a first-ever summit-titled "Shaping Health Care Decisions: An Inside Look
at Hospital Rankings"-that explored U.S. News &#38;World; Report's "Best
Hospitals" rankings. It brought together editors and statisticians from U.S.
News and more than 125 representatives from leading hospitals across the
country.

Panelists and audience participants made it clear that rankings matter for
hospitals and consumers. Rankings drive care improvements and give consumers
important information upon which to base decisions. But it was also evident that
not all rankings measure the same things, essentially leaving to consumers the
responsibility to examine what the various methodologies are designed to
reflect.

"This is a critical conversation to shape the future of hospital rankings and
ensure consumers have access to the full range of information they need to make
informed choices about their care," said Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and
Chief Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai Medical Center. "Rankings are just
one part of the equation when it comes to consumer choice, but as millions of
aging baby boomers seek specialty care, and 30 million more Americans enter the
health care system, they are becoming increasingly important to the
decision-making process."

The summit featured three panel discussions, moderated by Brian Kelly, U.S. News
Editor and Chief Content Officer, in which hospital executives explored how
current rankings assess quality and what quantifiable data could complement and
correlate to reputational criteria. They also discussed how the rankings could
be expanded to respond to advances in technology and biomedical science, as well
as the impact of socioeconomic status on health outcomes.

"There is a new kind of consumer very interested in diving deep," said Mr.
Kelly. "In our role as a data provider we want to take advantage of the flood of
new health care data becoming available and do it in a responsive and
responsible way."

Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor, told the audience that the
rankings are designed to help people who are "in trouble," facing complex
medical conditions requiring the finest specialty care. He noted that given new
data sources, the time may be at hand to create companion rankings for community
hospitals delivering routine care, which makes up the lion's share of health
services today.

Peter Slavin, MD, President of Massachusetts General Hospital, pointed out that
hospitals often respond to rankings in an effort to improve their grade.

"To some degree they help shape our quality and safety priorities," Dr. Slavin
said. "People want to be in a place that is advancing medicine (and) rankings
could take this into account by assessing things like clinical trials, NIH
[National Institutes of Health] funding, and breakthrough research."

Mount Sinai's Dr. Davis offered this specific observation: "Where are the best
places to get the innovation and the care of tomorrow? If you are a patient with
colon cancer, we now know from genomic screening that a subset of patients will
respond to a certain drug. Only the best hospitals will have genomic capability
to choose the right drug for a patient's tumor."

In concluding remarks, Dr. Davis stressed that it is important for the rankings
to account for institutions that are fully wired and capable of sharing patient
data across teams, as well as the level of clinical trial participation. These,
he said, are indicators of centers that are conducting breakthrough research and
delivering the latest care. In addition, rankings should reflect hospitals that
are caring for patients who have comorbid conditions that affect their health
status, such as patients who are waitlisted for a liver transplant but who die
from coronary arrest that is related to their overall poor health. Rankings
could adjust for these cases by using V-codes, or standard chart annotations
that detail multiple conditions for each patient.

Dr. Davis and others agreed that there should be adjustments for the geographic
availability of nursing home and hospice beds, because in their absence,
patients die in hospitals, affecting the institution's mortality rates. Lastly,
as many of the participants noted, socioeconomic variables must be looked at
more closely so so-called "safety-net hospitals" are not disadvantaged because
they care for the sickest and most impoverished patients.

"We view rankings as a benchmark and a roadmap for us to get better," said
panelist Meri Armour, President and Chief Executive Officer of Le Bonheur
Children's Hospital, in Memphis. "The challenge for all of us is to make certain
that what we are all doing is improving our processes and outcomes. The point is
to take these measures and ask, how do we get to where we want to be?"

Summit panel participants included Meri Armour, President and Chief Executive
Officer, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital (Memphis, TN); Vinita Bahl, DMD, MPP,
Director of Clinical Information and Decision Support Services, University of
Michigan (Ann Arbor, MI); Steven J. Corwin, MD, Chief Executive Officer, New
York-Presbyterian Hospital (New York, NY); Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and
Chief Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai Medical Center (New York, NY);
Timothy J. Gardner, MD, Medical Director, Center for Heart & Vascular Health,
Christiana Care Health System (Wilmington, DE); Brent C. James, MD, MStat, Chief
Quality Officer and Executive Director, Institute for Health Care Delivery
Research, Intermountain Healthcare (Salt Lake City, UT); Bradley J. Narr, MD,
Chair, Department of Anesthesiology and Chair, Surgical and Procedural
Committee, Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN); Sharon O'Keefe, President, University of
Chicago Medical Center (Chicago, IL); Philip O. Ozuah, MD, PhD, Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer, Montefiore Medical Center (Bronx, NY);
and Peter L. Slavin, MD, President, Massachusetts General Hospital (Boston, MA).


The Summit marks the first time U.S. News editors have discussed their hospital
ranking system in an extensive public forum with the leaders of the institutions
being ranked.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 11, 2013 Monday

Hospital rankings paint incomplete picture, officials say

BYLINE: Hannah Poturalski, Hamilton JournalNews, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1120 words


Nov. 11--With an inundation of available hospital data and rankings systems
floating in cyberspace, area hospital officials say it's best for patients to
rely on primary care physicians for recommendations on where to be treated.

Rankings systems steeped a majority in evidence-based outcomes and care, such as
those by Truven Health Analytics, can rival the more subjective data points
collected by agencies such as U.S. News and World Report, that bases its annual
Best Hospitals list more than a third on a hospital's reputation among
specialists.

"All rating systems are not the same; they look at quality and patient
satisfaction in different ways," said Colleen O'Toole, chief administrative
officer and vice president for operations at the Greater Cincinnati Health
Council.

The nonprofit health council has more than 30 hospitals within its membership,
and O'Toole said while they're all competing for a higher market share and more
patients, they are still able to unite for sharing best practices.

"For consumers this is all very confusing," O'Toole said. "As a field, health
care hasn't done a good job showing what's quality and how it's measured."

Ohio has nine hospitals that are nationally ranked by U.S. News and World
Report. An additional 30 other hospitals met standards for strong performance
within Ohio, according to the agency.

Officials at Kettering Health Network -- with two hospitals ranked in the
state's top 30 by U.S. News and World Report this year -- study the measures
used by each ranking agency after the reports are released, said Teri Sholder,
chief quality officer for Kettering Health. She said organizations such as
CareChex and Truven Health "provide a more comprehensive" view than is available
from U.S. News and World Report.

"We value any organization that's working to improve health care," Sholder said.
"We encourage patients to heed the advice of their primary care physician ...
unless they understand the complex method and measures ranked."

At the health council, O'Toole echoed that sentiment adding that relying on just
one rankings system can leave the consumer with incomplete information.

Donna Mollaun, of Fairfield, said when determining what health care facilities
to visit she relies on word of mouth from friends and others, as well as her
personal experiences in the past.

"The research I do is about the doctor ... how many procedures does he/she
perform weekly in that specialty and where the doctor's educated," Mollaun said.
"I put no faith in the doctor rating pages."

Mollaun said in past years, even though she lives within walking distance to
Mercy Hospital Fairfield, she made the choice to move her care further south to
Jewish Hospital, before it was part of the Mercy Health network. Jewish Hospital
was then part of the now-dissolved Health Alliance of Greater Cincinnati.

Mollaun, 63, said a previous doctor treated her for a bladder infection, that
turned out to be pancreatic cancer. She underwent a Whipple procedure in 2003 to
remove the cancer.

"If I had relied on hospital rankings, I would have died 10 years ago," Mollaun
said. "This decision (to move hospitals) was based on prior personal experiences
with Mercy in Fairfield and comments from other former patients and their
families."

Tom Urban, market leader and president of Mercy Health's north market, said the
U.S. News and World Report rankings are "not very important" to him. Urban said
the rankings are considered "a beauty contest" to some in the health care field
because of not being based on "unbiased, impartial data."

"It's more on reputation and there's not a lot of hard data," Urban said. "It
gets a lot of publicity but as far as insiders in the hospital, it doesn't have
as much weight for an organization."

Urban said there are many rankings systems -- locally, statewide and nationally
-- that cause confusion for the consumer due to no one agency being nationally
recognized as the best or most objective.

"My advice is go to that health care organization you know, from personal
experience or family experience, that is obsessed with clinical quality and
patient safety," Urban said.

Within the Premier Health network, which operates Atrium Medical Center in
Middletown, three hospitals are ranked within the top 40 in Ohio, according to
U.S. News and World Report. Atrium is ranked 30th in the state; with the Good
Samaritan and Miami Valley hospitals in Dayton also falling in the top.

Dr. Tammy Lundstrom, senior vice president and chief medical officer for Premier
Health, said that while the network does pay attention to rankings systems, its
physician leadership council and other groups strive to make it a holistic
approach. She said all rankings use different reporting periods -- from six
months to three years rolling -- and have either broad or narrow scopes.

"We're trying to look at the broad scope of care; there's no one quality metric
or ranking that's absolute," Lundstrom said. "We look for gaps or opportunities
to continue to improve. Our major goal is to constantly improve quality and
patient safety to the highest level."

The information available to consumers shrinks significantly on the pediatric
side, said Dr. Evie Alessandrini, assistant vice president of Outcomes Systems
at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. She said it's much harder for
the hospital system, let alone patients, to find comparative data for pediatric
care due to a lack of rankings systems or mandatory reporting requirements for
pediatric hospitals in the country.

"U.S. News and World Report ... is really one of the best methods where we can
understand our performance compared to our peer hospitals and other children's
hospitals," Alessandrini said.

Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center is ranked nationally in all 10
specialities tracked, including first in pediatric cancer care and second for
nephrology (kidney) and pulmonology (lungs), according to U.S. News and World
Report's 2013-14 ranking. The ranking includes the satellite hospital in Liberty
Twp.

Alessandrini said the survey by U.S. News and World Report has changed
significantly in the past 10 years -- with a shift from 75 percent based on
reputation with specialists to now about a third based on reputation. The U.S.
News ranking considers structure (equipment, staffing, certification); processes
of care; and outcomes (survival, pain level).

"Over time the measures are becoming increasingly better and evidence-based and
it makes it more important and relevant for us to use the data for comparison,"
Alessandrini said.

___ (c)2013 the Hamilton JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) Visit the Hamilton
JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) at www.journal-news.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131111-HL-Hospital-rankings
-paint-incomplete-picture-officials-say-1111-20131111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HL


                        Copyright 2013 The Journal-News


                              10 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                              June 27, 2016 Monday

Most hospitals in Pakistan have poor web presence

BYLINE: Shahina Maqbool

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 116

LENGTH: 805  words


A majority of the hospitals in Pakistan have a poor Web presence, reveals the '
Ranking Web of World Hospitals,' a tool that shows the commitment of health
organisations to electronic publication and dissemination of academic
information related to medicine.

The following is the world ranking of Pakistani hospitals: CIDP International
Foundation (1842), Jinnah Memorial Hospital (2400), Sindh Institute of Urology
and Transplantation (2836), Shifa International Hospital (3760), Shaukat Khanum
Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre (4064), Al Shifa Trust Eye Hospital
(5109), Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (5911), Layton Rahmatulla
Benevolent Trust Eye Hospital(7200), Liaquat National Hospital (7333), Allama
Iqbal Medical College and Jinnah Hospital Lahore (7659), Indus Hospital (7679),
Services Institute of Medical Sciences (9000), Fatima Memorial System (9190),
Rehman Medical Institute (9549), Aadil Hospital (9621), Marie Adelaide Leprosy
Centre (10409), Tabba Heart Institute (11008), Lady Reading Hospital (11136),
Sharif Medical City (11385), Dr Ziauddin Hospital Karachi (11385).

The 'Ranking Web of World Hospitals' is an initiative of Cyber metrics Lab, a
research group belonging to the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas
(CSIC), the largest public research body in Spain.

These rankings are published from a purely academic point of view and should
only be used as such. "The Web indicators applied do not measure the quality of
treatment and health care offered by the hospitals. So please be aware that if
you are looking for the best place to treat a health condition, this ranking is
not appropriated for such a search," CSIC clarifies.

The objective of the initiative is to motivate both institutions and scholars to
have a web presence that reflect accurately their activities. "If the web
performance of an institution is below the expected position according to their
academic excellence, hospital authorities should reconsider their web policy,
promoting substantial increases of the volume and quality of their electronic
publications," CSIC states.

According to CSIC many hospitals, even in the developed countries, have a poor
presence in the Web or no presence at all. About 5-10% of the institutions have
no independent web presence, most of them located in developing countries. "This
lack of valuable contents publicly available is really very concerning and it
should not be longer acceptable in the 21st century," it maintains. "With these
rankings we intend to provide extra motivation to researchers worldwide for
publishing more and better scientific content on the Web, making it available to
colleagues and people wherever they are located," CSIC maintains.

The 'Ranking Web of World Hospitals' is launched in a Beta phase, and it is
intended that once it reaches its definitive version, it will be updated every 6
months (data collected in January and July and published one month later). The
goal of the project is to convince academic and political communities of the
importance of the web publication not only for dissemination of academic
knowledge but also for measuring scientific activities, performance and impact.

The current objective of the ranking is to promote Web publication by hospitals.
The ranking measures the volume, visibility and impact of web pages published by
hospitals, with special emphasis in the scientific output (referred papers,
conference contributions, pre-prints, monographs, thesis, reports) but also
taking into account other materials (courseware, seminars or workshops
documentation, digital libraries, databases, multimedia, personal pages) and the
general information on the institution, their departments, research groups or
supporting services and people working or attending courses.

The project intends to have true global coverage, not narrowing the analysis to
a few hundreds of institutions (world-class hospitals) but including as many
organisations as possible. "The only requirement in our international rankings
is having an autonomous web presence with an independent web domain. This
approach allows a larger number of institutions to monitor their current ranking
and the evolution of this position after adopting specific policies and
initiatives," CSIC informs.

The original aim of the ranking is to promote Web publication, not to rank
institutions. The Web covers not only formal (e-journals, repositories) but also
informal scholarly communication. Web publication is cheaper, maintaining the
high standards of quality of peer review processes. It could also reach much
larger potential audiences, offering access to scientific knowledge to
researchers and institutions located in developing countries and also to third
parties (economic, industrial, political or cultural stakeholders) in their own
community.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 16, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Sarasota Memorial Hospital : US News & World Report Announces 2014 "Best
Hospitals" Rankings

LENGTH: 454  words


July 16 --  Once again, Sarasota Memorial Hospital is the only hospital in the
region to make the grade on U.S. News & World Report's "Best Hospitals" list.
Not only was the hospital ranked among the very best hospitals in the nation for
Gynecology care in 2014-15, U.S. News also ranked Sarasota Memorial among the
top five hospitals in Florida and #1 in southern Florida for overall care.

The annual "Best Hospitals" rankings, now in their 25th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients. Sarasota
Memorial Chief Medical Operations Officer Steve Taylor, MD, attributed the
hospital's consistently high rankings to the exceptional expertise and
dedication of its entire team - from physicians and nurses to leaders, staff and
volunteers throughout the health system.

"We are honored to be recognized among the nation's best hospitals - it means as
much to us today as the first time we made the list 10 years ago," said Taylor
said. "It's truly a testament to our public mission and commitment to provide
outstanding care to the community we serve."

In U.S. News' 2014-15 Best Hospitals rankings, Sarasota Memorial rose in the
rankings, to #30 in Gynecology care (up from #48 last year). It also was
recognized nationally as a "high performing" hospital in eight specialties - up
from six specialties last year:

Cancer (new this year)

Diabetes & Endocrinology

Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

Geriatrics

Nephrology

Orthopedics

Pulmonology

Urology (new this year)

On a state and metropolitan level, U.S. News ranked Sarasota Memorial #1 in
South Florida, #1 in the Sarasota-Venice-North Port-Bradenton region and #5 (up
from #6 in 2013) among all 265 Florida hospitals for overall care.

U.S. News evaluated hospitals in 16 adult specialties and ranked the top 50 in
most of the specialties. Just 3 percent of the nearly 5,000 hospitals that were
analyzed for Best Hospitals 2014-15 earned national ranking in even one
specialty.

"The data tell the story - a hospital that emerged from our analysis as one of
the best has much to be proud of," says U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery
Comarow. "A Best Hospital has demonstrated its expertise in treating the most
challenging patients."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk because of age or multiple health problems. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing
levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties. The
rankings are freely available here and will appear in the U.S. News "Best
Hospitals 2015" guidebook, available in August.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 17, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

U-M's C.S. Mott Children's Hospital earns top rankings from U.S. News & World
Report

LENGTH: 737  words


New Delhi, June 17 -- The University of Michigan's C.S. Mott Children's Hospital
is among the best children's hospitals in the country in pediatric specialties
and is the only hospital in Michigan ranked in all 10 specialties evaluated,
according to the U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best Children's Hospitals
rankings. C.S. Mott is nationally ranked in all 10 of the evaluated categories
including 6th in the country in cardiology and heart surgery, 20th in urology,
20th in nephrology, 21st in diabetes and endocrinology and among the country's
best in cancer, gastroenterology, neurology and neurosurgery, neonatology,
pulmonology and orthopedics. C.S. Mott has been named among the nation's best in
these rankings since they were introduced in 2007. The new rankings recognize
the top 50 children's hospitals in each of those 10 pediatric specialties. "We
are extremely proud that we continue to get high rankings from U.S. News & World
Report for the tremendous care we provide to our patients and families at C.S.
Mott Children's Hospital," says Ora H. Pescovitz, M.D., executive vice president
for Medical Affairs at the University of Michigan and CEO of the U-M Health
System.

"We strive for an ideal patient care experience, so it's wonderful to receive
recognition for our efforts and to be ranked year after year among the nation's
best in all the specialties." U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals
rankings in 2007 to help families of sick children find the best medical care
available. The rankings offer quality-related information at the individual
hospital level. "We have worked very hard at improving quality of care, safety
and patient satisfaction at C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, so it is very
meaningful to be honored once again as a comprehensive children's hospital in
all of the specialty pediatric disciplines," says Valerie Castle, M.D., Ravitz
professor and chair of the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
and a pediatric oncologist. Chris Dickinson, M.D., interim executive director of
C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, said he's glad that U.S. News and World Report
has recognized the tremendous care provided for the children at C.S. Mott
Children's Hospital. "This ranking, along with the recent Parents Magazine
ranking that placed C.S. Mott Children's Hospital eighth in the nation,
demonstrate that we are on the right track, providing top-notch care for often
the sickest children with the most complicated diseases from Michigan and around
the world," says Dickinson, who also is a professor of pediatric
gastroenterology. C.S. Mott's highest ranking was in heart care and heart
surgery, 6th in the nation. C.S. Mott's Congenital Heart Center performs over
850 cardiac operations each year -- from the most common to the most complex. As
an international referral center for children with complex congenital heart
problems, U-M has the second largest congenital heart program in the United
States. "Our teams of caregivers really shine in all of our programs, so we're
thrilled to be ranked among the nation's best in all 10 categories evaluated,"
says John Park, M.D., surgeon-in-chief for C.S. Mott Children's Hospital and the
Cheng Yang Chang professor of pediatric urology. "Here at the University of
Michigan we are committed to becoming the leaders and best in innovative
interdisciplinary care, merging kind and compassionate healing with cutting-edge
research and education." To gather data, U.S. News used two surveys: a clinical
questionnaire sent to 179 pediatric hospitals and, for the reputational
assessment, a survey of 150 pediatric specialists and subspecialists in each
specialty. The 1,500 physicians were asked where they would send the sickest
children in their specialty, setting aside location and expense. This year, U.S.
News surveyed 178 pediatric centers to obtain hard data such as availability of
key resources and ability to prevent complications and infections. The hospital
survey made up 75 percent of the rankings. A separate reputational survey in
which 1,500 pediatric specialists - 150 in each specialty - were asked where
they would send the sickest children in their specialty made up the remaining 25
percent. The full rankings and methodology are available at
www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals. The rankings will also be published in the
U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, which will be available in August.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 998 DOCUMENTS


               The Valley News-Dispatch (Tarentum, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

Allegheny Valley Hospital cited among region's best

BYLINE: Tom Yerace, The Valley News-Dispatch, Tarentum, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 531 words


July 21--Allegheny Valley Hospital has been ranked by a national publication as
the fifth best hospital in a region that prides itself on its medical
facilities.

U.S. News & World Report released its 2011-12 Best Hospital rankings this week,
which place the Harrison hospital in a fifth place tie with two larger, better
known Pittsburgh hospitals -- Mercy and West Penn.

Ned Laubacher, Allegheny Valley's president and CEO, said he was pleased by the
U.S. News recognition but noted that it isn't the first organization to award
laurels to the hospital.

HealthGrades, a Colorado-based national ranking organization, has singled out
Allegheny Valley for overall quality care consistently, according to Laubacher
and Linda Dalak, AVH spokeswoman.

"U.S. News has us as No. 5 locally, but Health Grades has had us ranked in the
top 5 percent of hospitals nationally for six consecutive years," Laubacher
said.

That includes placing in the top 1 percent of U.S. hospitals in 2009.

CareChex, another ratings agency, has ranked Allegheny Valley Hospital as the
top hospital in the state for overall care in its 2011 rankings.

"However they choose to do it, we come out at or near the top," Dalak said. "It
all comes down to the clinical quality care that we provide."

"I think any ranking will have us in the top 10 -- No. 1, No. 5 or No. 10 -- to
us it really doesn't matter," said Laubacher. "What matters is we have in this
Valley one of the top hospitals in the region, in the state and in the nation
for clinical quality."

Allegheny Valley Hospital, referred to in the U.S. News rankings by its former
name, Alle-Kiski Medical Center, was recognized as high performing in four
specialties: geriatrics, gastroenterology, pulmonology and urology.

UPMC St. Margaret, located near Aspinwall, was cited for high performance in
three specialties: geriatrics, neurology and neurosurgery, and orthopedics.

"To be honest with you, we focus on the national rankings and as you know UPMC
(Presbyterian), we're ranked on the national honor roll," said Susan Manko, UPMC
spokeswoman.

The honor roll consists of the top 17 American hospitals and puts UPMC
Presbyterian, at No. 12. It's No. 1 in Western Pennsylvania.

Manko said UPMC officials are having a hard time understanding the methodology
for determining the regional rankings.

She said the regional rankings are something new and seem to "dilute" the
overall national rankings.

"I really don't have any comment on these regional rankings," she said. "I have
never seen them like this."

"Everybody gets caught up in this competition between UPMC and West
Penn-Allegheny," Manko said, " but I think it's good to say that people in
Pittsburgh and this whole region are very lucky to have the quality of hospitals
that they have here whether it is UPMC or AGH (West Penn-Allegheny)."

To see more of The Valley News-Dispatch or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.pittsburghlive.com/x/valleynewsdispatch/. Copyright (c) 2011, The
Valley News-Dispatch, Tarentum, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110721-TV-Allegheny-Valley-Hospital
-cited-among-region-s-best-0721-20110721

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TV


                    Copyright 2011 The Valley News-Dispatch


                              14 of 998 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

 County Hospitals Get Both Good And Bad News;
Magazine Gives Lgh High Marks In Four Specialties.

BYLINE: Tim Mekeel Business Editor

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 487  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


BY TIM MEKEEL

Business Editor

tmekeel@lnpnews.com

Lancaster General Hospital again has been ranked among the nation's best in four
adult specialties, U.S. News & World Report said Tuesday.

Recognized in the magazine's 2014-2015 "Best Hospitals" rankings were: diabetes
and endocrinology (18th); gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery (33rd);
orthopedics (37th); and pulmonology (45th).

LGH was recognized in four specialities by U.S. News last year, too.

The 2013-2014 list of specialties was the same as this year's, with one
exception - cardiology and heart surgery, rather than pulmonology.

Of the three specialties ranked in both years, LGH bettered its position in two.

LGH improved by 13 places in gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery and
by three places in orthopedics.

It dropped one place in diabetes and endocrinology.

The annual U.S. News "Best Hospitals" rankings, now in their 25th year,
recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.

Of the nearly 5,000 U.S hospitals evaluated, only 144, or 3 percent, were ranked
in at least one specialty.

The North Duke Street-based hospital also attained high-performance rankings in
seven adult specialties: cancer; cardiology and heart surgery; ear, nose and
throat; geriatrics; nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; and urology.

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties.

In most specialties, it ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other
high-performing hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their
nationally ranked peers.

The magazine also provides state rankings, with LGH placing fifth in
Pennsylvania, up from sixth in 2013-14 and from 15th in 2012-13.

U.S. News says it publishes the "Best Hospitals" rankings to guide patients who
need a high level of care.

That could be because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk due to age or multiple health problems.

Objective measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of
nurse staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

LGH is a frequent selection. In seven of the past 10 years, LGH has been
recognized in at least one speciality.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a research organization based in Research Triangle Park, North
Carolina.

Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

Elsewhere in the region, Hershey Medical Center was ranked as high performing in
10 adult specialties.

They are: cancer; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; nephrology; neurology
and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

To read the U.S. News rankings online, visit http://health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals.

The rankings will appear in print in the U.S. News "Best Hospitals 2015''
guidebook, available in August.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                              June 27, 2016 Monday

'Only four govt hospitals among the top 20 in the country'

BYLINE: IKRAM JUNAIDI

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 179

LENGTH: 561  words


According to the 'Ranking Web of World Hospitals', only four government-run
hospitals are among the top 20 in the country, while the best public sector
hospital in Pakistan ranks 5,911 in the world.

Although the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (Pims) has topped the list
of public sector hospitals in the country, it is in seventh position in the
overall list of Pakistan's hospitals.

According to the ranking, Jinnah Hospital Lahore is the second best public
sector hospital, the Services Institute of Medical Sciences is third and Lady
Reading Hospital Peshawar ranks fourth.

Private hospitals occupy the first six positions in the list of the country's
hospitals. Cidp International Foundation has been declared the best hospital in
the country, although it ranks 1,842 in the world ranking. The Jinnah Memorial
Hospital ranks second, the Sindh Institute of Urology and Transplantation ranks
third, Shifa International Hospital fourth and Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Hospital and Research Centre has been ranked the fifth best hospital in the
country.

According to Ranking Web of World Hospitals, the best public hospital in
Pakistan ranks 5,911th in the world

The Ranking Web of World Hospitals is an initiative of Cybermetrics Lab, a
research group of the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC),
the largest public research body in Spain. The World Health Organistaion, World
Bank and Asian Development Bank consider these rankings while allocating grants
and projects.

According to the rankings, of the top 40 hospitals in South Asia, 35 are in
India, three in Pakistan and one each in Bangladesh and Nepal.

Of the top 20 hospitals in South Asia, 19 hospitals in India and one in
Bangladesh are the top 20 hospitals. However, just one hospital in India made it
on the list of the 20 best hospitals in all of Asia.

A number of parameters are analysed when ranking hospitals which include the
number of facilities, equipment, the number of experts in the hospital and the
number of scholars affiliated with the hospital. The reputation of a hospital is
also looked at, as is its popularity and whether it is preferred during an
emergency.

Mortality rates and complications after treatment are also considered, as are
workload, stroke cases, those of heart attacks, road accidents and the
performance of various departments.

Dr Javed Akram, the Pims vice chancellor, which is rated the best public sector
hospital in the country but seventh overall, said CSIC had contacted the
hospital through the Spanish embassy and had asked for data on the hospital two
months ago.

Pims would have been ranked the best hospital in the country but we lacked
points in two categories. We do not have an incinerator and a Central Heating
Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) System, he said.

Dr Akram explained that incinerators are used to dispose of hospital waste and
according to international standards, hospitals should have their own
incinerators to ensure that waste is disposed on time and to avoid the spread of
infections. The hospital also needs Rs970 million to install an HVAC, which it
has applied for twice. The funding for the system is yet to be released.

If we did not lack in these two categories, we would have been ranked the best
hospital in the country. We will try to fulfil all the requirements and top the
list the next time, he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL HAS 'A' FOR SAFETY;
COMPUTER SYSTEM USED TO TRACK MEDICINES LIFTS GRADE

BYLINE:  Tom Corwin  Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 578 words


If Augusta's hospitals were in school, University Hospital would be at the top
of the class in safety, according to one group's rankings.

The Leapfrog Group released its Hospital Safety Score today for more than 2,500
acute care hospitals in the U.S., assigning them a letter grade based on 28
different safety processes and outcome measures, such as hospital-acquired
infections.

University got an "A" in the interim report after getting a "C" in October in
the previous ranking. Doctors Hospital and Georgia Regents Medical Center
maintained their "C" grades. Trinity Hospital of Augusta was not included in the
rankings because of problems transmitting its data, spokeswoman Rachel Covar
said.

Doctors Hospital noted in a statement that there are many groups grading or
rating hospitals and pointed to its ranking as a Top Performer by the Joint
Commission last year, as was Trinity. Georgia Regents issued a statement saying
that the Leapfrog ranking was "one of many tools patients may use when making
health care decisions," and advised patients to use many sources, including
physicians and family, when choosing a provider.

A big reason University's grade improved was the validation of its computerized
prescriber order entry system in its Epic information technology system, which
passed a live test by a Leapfrog vendor in December to see if it could flag
medications that should not be taken together or that would be contradicted by a
patient's lab tests, said Ed Burr, the senior vice president for legal affairs
and compliance officer for University.

University got a 5 for its computerized prescription service in October but got
the full 100 points after the validation, he said.

"Epic was the big driver in this," Burr said.

Improvement in that area, often referred to by its acronym CPOE, is part of a
national trend that Leapfrog was pleased to see, said Missy Danforth, the senior
director for hospital ratings at Leapfrog.

"We've seen a big uptick in hospitals' performance on the CPOE measure," she
said.

University was one of 17 in Georgia to earn an A out of 64 hospitals ranked, and
the state came in 24th in the percentage of hospitals that got the top ranking.
Overall, the number of A hospitals declined from 813 in the previous ranking to
804 in the current review.

"It's not getting easier to get into that club, it is getting harder," Burr
said.

The rankings do not include specialty or Critical Access Hospitals, and many
smaller hospitals that do not have a large intensive care unit will not have
enough data in the categories used in the ranking and thus are not included,
Danforth said.

The rankings are important because many unintended errors still occur daily in
U.S. hospitals and harm patients, said Leapfrog CEO Leah Binder. She pointed to
a recent New England Journal of Medicine estimate that 1 in 25 patients acquires
an infection while in the hospital.

"That's just one more reason that more than 1,000 people die every day from
preventable medical errors," Binder said.

That also drives up costs, which are passed on to the payers. Leapfrog works
with 40 different business coalitions to look at these preventable errors and
their costs and provide transparency about how hospitals perform, Binder said.

"They're interested in what are the things that drive the cost of health care
and I think they have made a good bet that it is avoidable complications," Burr
said.

Reach Tom Corwin at (706) 823-3213

or tom.corwin@augustachronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2014 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

Butler County hospitals move up in U.S. News ranking

BYLINE: Hannah Poturalski, Journal-News, Hamilton, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 629 words


July 15--BUTLER COUNTY -- Two Butler County hospitals are among the state's best
for treating patients with the most life-threatening and rare conditions,
according to a new national ranking of hospitals released today.

U.S. News & World Report's 25th edition of Best Hospitals has placed West
Chester Hospital and Fort Hamilton Hospital among the state's and region's top
performers.

For 2014-15, U.S. News evaluated nearly 5,000 hospitals in 16 adult specialties
-- with just 3 percent of those hospitals earning a national ranking in a
specialty.

The analysis is based mostly on death rates for patients who represent
especially challenging cases, as well as marks for patient safety and other
measures of performance that can be assessed using hard data. U.S. News also
uses an annual reputational survey of physicians who are asked to name hospitals
they consider the best in their specialty for difficult cases, according to U.S.
News.

The UC Health-operated West Chester Hospital has ranked seventh in the
Cincinnati metro area and 24th in Ohio.

Fort Hamilton Hospital, owned by Kettering Health, ranked eighth in the
Cincinnati region and 29th in Ohio.

"This ranking is a distinct honor," said Mark Smith, president of Fort Hamilton
Hospital. "To be recognized as one of the best hospitals in the Cincinnati metro
area and the state shows that residents in Hamilton do not need to travel far to
receive quality care."

The 12 data-dependent specialties are cancer; cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology, and urology.

The four reputation-only specialties are ophthalmology, psychiatry,
rehabilitation and rheumatology.

"U.S. News strives to provide patients and their families with the most
comprehensive data available on hospitals," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News health
rankings editor. "With an estimated 400,000 deaths occurring in hospitals each
year from medical errors, measuring safety performance is critical to
understanding how well a hospital cares for its patients."

Hospitals not nationally ranked in a specialty but with scores in the top 25
percent of the analyzed centers are recognized as high performing.

Fort Hamilton Hospital was recognized as high performing in the areas of
neurology and neurosurgery and pulmonology.

West Chester Hospital received high-performing marks in gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery, geriatrics, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

Dr. Kevin Joseph, president and chief executive officer at West Chester
Hospital, said the five-year-old hospital moved up two spots this year, from
26th in the region last year to now 24th.

"We always focus on quality, safety and service, that's not changed," Joseph
said, but the hospital has added service lines of bariatric surgery, a trauma
center and surgical intensive care unit. "It's nice to get this validation of
excellent care."

Joseph said the ranking from U.S. News is just "one tool in the toolbox" for
community members to use in making their health care decisions. Other rankings
are published annually by groups including The Leapfrog Group and Healthgrades.

"Health care overall is becoming more transparent with data," Joseph said.

Other regional hospitals that made top marks include: TriHealth's Bethesda North
Hospital (third in Ohio) and Good Samaritan Hospital (seventh in Ohio); The
Christ Hospital (eighth in Ohio); and University of Cincinnati Medical Center
(tied for eighth in Ohio).

The rankings are available online at www.usnews.com.

___ (c)2014 the Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio) Visit the Journal-News (Hamilton,
Ohio) at www.journal-news.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140715-HL-Butler-County-hospitals-move-up-in-U-S-News-ranking
-0715-20140715

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HL


                        Copyright 2014 The Journal-News


                              18 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Ocala Star-Banner (Florida)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 18, 2015 Saturday

Medicare ranks hospitals for patient satisfaction

BYLINE: Fred Hiers, Ocala Star-Banner, Fla.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 498 words


April 18--Munroe Regional Medical Center and Ocala Health's two hospitals scored
among some of the lowest ranking hospitals for patient satisfaction in a recent
government health care survey.

Ocala Regional Medical Center/West Marion Community, which were graded together,
and Munroe both received two stars out of a possible five in a rating system
created by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the government agency
that oversees those health programs.

The new rating reflects patient feedback about their hospital stay and covers
such issues as how attentive nurses were, how communicative doctors were and how
clean hospital rooms and restrooms were during the patient's stay.

The CMS website is intended for "consumers to choose a hospital and understand
the quality of care they deliver," according to an agency statement.

The site also allows consumers to compare the rankings of various hospitals in
their areas.

The CMS star ranking is the latest data collection made available to the public
in ranking hospitals. Earlier, the CMS also began making available hospital
rankings based on other medical factors such as recovery and readmissions.

The data was collected on almost 3,500 Medicare-certified, acute-care hospitals.

CMS said in a press release that the data made available "builds on a larger
effort a U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to build a health care
system that delivers better care, spends health care dollars more wisely, and
results in healthier people."

Of the hospitals in the survey, 251 received five-star ratings, according to
Modern Healthcare, an online publication that monitors healthcare issues.

Of the rest, 1,205 received four stars, 1,414 received three stars, 582 received
two stars, and 101 received the lowest ranking: one star.

In eight of the 11 survey questions, Munroe received responses that ranked lower
than average for Florida hospitals.

Ocala Regional Medical Center/West Marion received nine rankings below the state
average.

Ocala Health issued this statement to the Star-Banner: "The star rating system
being introduced by CMS is so new that we're still learning about the complex
methodology that is being used to determine the ratings. However, quality of
care and the patient experience has always been and will remain a top priority
for Ocala Health."

Munroe did not provide a comment.

Other area hospitals that received two-star rankings included The Villages
Regional Hospital, Citrus Memorial Hospital and Leesburg Regional Medical
Center.

Seven Rivers Regional Medical Center received a single-star ranking. UF Health
Shands Hospital received three stars.

"These star ratings also encourage hospitals and clinicians to strive to
continuously improve the patient experience and quality of care delivered to all
patients," CMS' Dr. Patrick Conway said in the agency news release.

___ (c)2015 Ocala Star-Banner (Ocala, Fla.) Visit the Ocala Star-Banner (Ocala,
Fla.) at www.ocala.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150418-OA-Medicare-ranks-hospitals-for-patient-satisfaction-20150418

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OA


                        Copyright 2015 Ocala Star-Banner


                              19 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             August 7, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

LGH again ranked among best hospitals

BYLINE: By, Staff report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 233 words


Lancaster General Hospital (LGH) was again recognized among U.S. News & World
Report's Best Hospitals for 2016-17. The hospital, which is part of University
of Pennsylvania Health System (Penn Medicine), earned a best ranking in two
specialties and was ranked fifth among Pennsylvania hospitals. Additionally, LGH
earned "high performing" rankings in five specialties.

Lancaster General Hospital ranked "best" nationally in the specialties of
gastroenterology and GI surgery, and pulmonology. LGH's "high performing"
specialties are: diabetes and endocrinology, geriatrics, nephrology, neurology
and neurosurgery, and orthopedics.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings recognize hospitals that excel in
treating patients. The report strives to identify hospitals that provide
high-quality care for complicated illnesses and for common care. It bases the
rankings on factors including patient outcomes, nurse staffing levels and
surveys of physicians.

Other Penn Medicine hospitals earned top honors in the rankings. Together, the
combined enterprise of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and Penn
Presbyterian Medical Center was ranked as the ninth best hospital in the United
States on the magazine's "Honor Roll," and was ranked first in the state of
Pennsylvania. Chester County Hospital was ranked 12th in the state.

More about the Best Hospitals rankings can be found at usnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 23, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Spectrum Health United Memorial: Helen DeVos Children's Hospital Recognized by
U.S. News & World Report for Second Year

LENGTH: 472  words


New Delhi, July 23 -- Spectrum Health's Helen DeVos Children's Hospital has been
ranked in five specialties in the U.S. News & World Report's 2013 -14 Best
Children's Hospitals rankings. This is the second consecutive year the hospital
was recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of the best children's
hospitals in the country.



Helen DeVos Children's Hospital ranked among the best in nephrology,
pulmonology, orthopaedics, urology and cancer services. Each specialty improved
in their ranking, compared to the 2012-13 results, with more than half of the
specialties improving by double digits.

"We are humbled by this notable distinction," said Robert Connors, MD,
president, Helen DeVos Children's Hospital. "It is a reflection of the
tremendous work, passion and dedication of our employees and physicians, and
wouldn't be possible without the support and trust of our community and the
patients who inspire us."

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of these pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology,
gastroenterology & GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology &
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. Eighty-seven hospitals
ranked in at least one of the 10 specialties.

"Helen DeVos Children's Hospital deserves high praise," said Health Rankings
Editor Avery Comarow. "These rankings show the dedication and expertise that the
hospital brings to the care of children who need those qualities the most. We
think it is important to identify and call attention to pediatric centers like
this one."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of sick children find the best medical care available. The rankings
offer families an exclusive look at quality-related information at the
individual hospital level.

Each hospital's reputation among doctors was only a small part of what U.S. News
factored into its rankings. Three-quarters of each hospital's score was
determined through an analysis of patient outcomes and data on the structural
resources each hospital has for pediatric care. To gather data, U.S. News used
two surveys: a clinical questionnaire sent to 179 pediatric hospitals and, for
the reputational assessment, a survey of 150 pediatric specialists and
subspecialists in each specialty. The 1,500 physicians were asked where they
would send the sickest children in their specialty, setting aside location and
expense.

Helen DeVos Children's Hospital is a 212-bed regional referral center and
teaching hospital. It offers advanced pediatric specialty care with more than
200 pediatric physicians who practice in more than 50 pediatric specialties and
programs. Helen DeVos Children's Hospital is Michigan's largest neonatal center.
More information is available at www.helendevoschildrens.org.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

IU Health included on magazine's 'honor roll'

BYLINE: Dann Denny, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 810 words


July 23--IU Health, whose hospitals include facilities in Bloomington, Bedford
and Martinsville, has been named to the national "honor roll" in the U.S. News
and World Report's 23rd annual Best Hospitals rankings, the only Indiana
hospital or hospital system to receive that distinction.

The 17 hospitals and hospital systems in the U.S. making the honor roll
represent 0.3 percent of the nearly 5,000 hospitals and systems in the country
that were evaluated by looking at government-supplied data that shows how well
they were doing in 16 adult specialties -- taking into account such things as
survival rates, patient safety scores and a hospital's reputation among doctors
who practice that specialty.

"These hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said U.S. News health rankings editor Avery
Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send the toughest cases."

IU Health is No. 16 on the "honor roll," and 11 of its clinical programs are
cited among the top specialty programs in the United States. No. 1 is
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston; followed by Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore; the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.; and the Cleveland Clinic.

The 11 clinical areas in which IU Health are nationally ranked are urology,
eighth; pulmonology, 11th; gastroenterology, 11th; geriatrics, 13th; diabetes
and endocrinology, 18th; nephrology, 20th; neurology and neurosurgery, 23rd;
cardiology and heart surgery, 31st; cancer, 32nd; ear, nose and throat, 35th;
orthopedics, 44th; as well as gynecology, "high performing."

IU Health includes the IU Health Proton Therapy Center in Bloomington and 17
hospitals, including IU Health Bloomington Hospital, IU Health Bedford Hospital,
IU Health Paoli Hospital and IU Health Morgan Hospital.

IU Health Bloomington Hospital was ranked 11th among the 119 hospitals in
Indiana, and received "high performing" specialty rankings in gastroenterology
and urology. "Both of these specialty groups have outstanding physicians who
focus on clinical outcomes, and it shows," said Mark Moore, president and CEO of
IU Health Bloomington Hospital.

Referring to IU Health's inclusion on the honor roll, Moore said, "This is a big
day for over 2,800 employees in Bloomington and the 26,000 IU Health employees
across the state that contribute to our success, day in and day out.

"It makes us feel really good about bringing together two great organizations in
IU Health and Bloomington Hospital, and that kind of national ranking is a great
testimony to the caliber of physicians and hospitals that make up IU Health."

This marks the 15th straight year IU Health has made the U.S. News Best
Hospitals list, which this year is made up of 148 of the top hospitals in the
country among the 4,793 that were evaluated. But this is the first time IU
Health made the Best Hospitals "honor roll," which is a top tier subset of that
list.

"IU Health has been close to making the honor roll for a number of years," Moore
said. "It made it this year because of its continued emphasis across the IU
Health system on delivering pre-eminent care from top-notch physicians and
clinicians focusing on clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction."

Dr. Richard Graffis, executive vice president and chief medical officer at IU
Health, said because the rankings provided by U.S. News take into account
clinical expertise in complex cases and successful outcomes, they can help
people "identify the top ranking specialists to treat their condition."

"We appreciate these rankings because they affect our ability to recruit the
most skilled physicians, employ the best staff, pioneer leading research efforts
and provide the latest and most innovative treatment -- all in our mission to
care for the people of Indiana and beyond," Graffis said.

The complete rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

How the rankings work

To make the "honor roll," a hospital must earn at least one point in each of six
specialties. A hospital earned two points if it ranked among the top 10
hospitals in America in any of the 12 specialties in which the U.S. News
rankings are driven mostly by objective data, such as survival rates and patient
safety. Being ranked in the next 10 in those specialties earned a hospital one
point. In the other four specialties, where ranking is based on each hospital's
reputation among doctors who practice that specialty, the top five hospitals in
the country received two Honor Roll points and the next five got one point. The
number of hospitals making the honor roll differs from year to year, depending
on how many hospitals make the cut by meeting the established criteria.

___ (c)2012 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120723-BM-IU-Health-included-on-magazine-s-honor-roll-0723-20120723

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2012 Herald-Times


                              22 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 18, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Baystate Medical Center: Baystate Medical CenterNamed "Top Hospital" by U.S.
News and World Report

LENGTH: 422  words


New Delhi, July 18 -- Baystate Medical Center has been named a "top hospital" -
the third-best hospital in Massachusetts - in the U.S. News & World Report's
24th annual "Best Hospitals" ranking, recognizing hospitals that excel in
treating patients who need an especially high level of care.



U.S. News and World Report ranks up to 50 hospitals in each of 16 medical
specialties. Only 147 out of nearly 5,000 U.S. hospitals earned national ranking
in one or more of the specialties.

Baystate Medical Center's ranking, up from fifth-best hospital in last year's
"Best Hospitals" report, is a testament to the hard work and dedication of all
Baystate employees in making quality and patient safety second to none, noted
Dr. Evan M. Benjamin, senior vice president, Healthcare Quality, Baystate
Health.

"What our high ranking means for patients is that Baystate Medical Center is
recognized nationally as one of the safest hospitals in the country in terms of
outcomes and avoiding serious medical errors. This latest honor is just one of
many national awards and recognitions Baystate Medical Center has received over
the past years for its high quality of care," said Dr. Benjamin.

"Providing world-class healthcare close to home in western Massachusetts not
only represents the fulfillment of our mission, it also helps to keep our
Pioneer Valley community strong in terms of our overall health, economy, and
quality of life," he added.

Baystate Medical Center was ranked nationally in diabetes and endocrinology
(29), ear, nose and throat (26) and pulmonology (42).

The hospital also was recognized as "high performing" in cancer, cardiology and
heart surgery, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics and urology.

"The mission of Best Hospitals is to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face a particularly difficult Rankings Editor. "Patient
survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other
objective data largely determined the rankings in most specialties.

The research organization RTI International in Research Triangle Park, N.C.,
conducted the physician survey and produced the Best Hospital methodology and
national rankings under contract with U.S. News.

U.S News separately published the Best Children's Hospitals 2013-2014 rankings
last month where Baystate Children's Hospital was ranked 34th in pediatric
diabetes and endocrinology.

For more information on Baystate Medical Center, visit baystatehealth.org/bmc.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

Cincinnati Children's named a top hospital for 2011

BYLINE: James Sprague, Hamilton JournalNews, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 405 words


July 25--CINCINNATI -- A local hospital has been named one of the country's top
hospitals for 2011.

Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, including its Liberty Twp.
campus, was named third-best in the country among children's hospitals in U.S.
News and World Report's 2011 Best Children's Hospital rankings.

The rankings also recognized Cincinnati Children's as one of only 11 pediatric
hospitals in the country named to the publication's Honor Roll list of hospitals
that excelled in at least four of 10 medical specialties ranked by the
publication.

"We're honored to be ranked among the best children's hospitals in the nation as
a result of our strength in clinical care, research, and education," said
Michael Fisher, president and CEO of Cincinnati Children's. "We strive to
provide outstanding care across the spectrum of pediatric specialties -- and we
do it with a focus on quality, safety, family experience and value."

The Best Children's Hospital rankings combine clinical and operational data from
177 hospitals across the country with recommendations from pediatric doctors on
which hospitals they regard as the best for children's treatment.

More than 1.7 million patients were treated at the hospital and its campuses in
fiscal year 2010, said Danielle Lewis, the hospital's media relations associate.

Cincinnati Children's has been rated among the nation's top hospitals since the
rankings began in 2007.

The hospital also was ranked in the top 10 in the country among children's
hospitals for each of its pediatric specialty areas, including a number one
ranking for gastroenterology. It was one of only three hospitals in the country
-- Children's Hospital Boston and Children's Hospital of Philadelphia the others
-- recognized for excellence in all such areas.

Despite the ranking, however, Cincinnati Children's will not rest on its
laurels, Fisher said.

"We're never satisfied and will keep working to be the leader in improving the
health of children in our community and around the world," he said.

Contact this reporter at (513) 483-5226 or jsprague@coxohio.com

To see more of the Hamilton JournalNews or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.journal-news.com . Copyright (c) 2011, Hamilton JournalNews, Ohio
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110725-HL-Cincinnati-Children-s-named-a-top-hospital
-for-2011-0725-20110725

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HL


                        Copyright 2011 The Journal-News


                              24 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday

Sarasota Memorial wins top spot in U.S. ranking

BYLINE: DONNA KOEHN

SECTION: B; ARCHIVES; Pg. BNV01

LENGTH: 405 words


HOSPITAL: Magazine ranks its gynecology services No. 48 of nation's best 50

Sarasota Memorial Hospital's gynecology department helped earn it a top spot on
U.S. News & World Report's 2014 annual ranking of almost 5,000 medical centers
across the country.

No other Southwest Florida hospitals made the list.

Gynecology services at Sarasota Memorial were ranked No. 48 among the nation's
top 50. The rankings were based on several factors, including the number of
specialists, nursing ratios and patient satisfaction.

More than 80 percent of patients said they "definitely" would recommend Sarasota
Memorial to family and friends. The average at other hospitals in the state was
68 percent.

Hospital CEO Gwen MacKenzie said Sarasota Memorial, the region's public,
safety-net hospital, "sets the benchmark" for care.

"People don't have to leave the state or even their community to get the best
quality of care," she said Tuesday.

Sarasota Memorial also ranked in the top quarter of all hospitals in the country
in diabetes & endocrinology, gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics,
nephrology, orthopedics and pulmonology.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore was ranked the top medical facility in the
nation by U.S. News, an online magazine. No Florida medical centers were ranked
among the 18 "honor roll" hospitals.

Sarasota Memorial was ranked No. 6 of Florida's 271 hospitals overall, up from
No. 8 last year.

The top medical center in the state is Florida Hospital in Orlando, followed by
Tampa General Hospital, the magazine said.

Avery Comarow, U.S. News health rankings editor, said 3 percent of all hospitals
earn a national ranking in any specialty.

The drive to hold hospitals more accountable and to keep down Medicare costs has
led to a sometimes confusing proliferation of hospital rankings and "best of"
lists in the last few years.

They are provided by the federal government, private foundations, magazines,
insurance companies and trade organizations.

The longevity of U.S. News' annual report adds to its credibility; it has been
around for 24 years.

MacKenzie said she appreciates all the rankings to help consumers, but likes the
fact that the U.S, News' report also asks physicians where they prefer to send
their patients and their own family members.

The complete rankings are available at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals
and will appear in print in the U.S. News "Best Hospitals 2014" guidebook
available Aug. 27.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: According to U.S. News and World Report, more than 80 percent of
patients said they "definitely" would recommend Sarasota Memorial Hospital to
family and friends. The average at other hospitals in the state was 68 percent.
The hospital also ranked in the top quarter of U.S. hospitals in six other
departments. STAFF PHOTO / HAROLD BUBIL Hospital CEO Gwen MacKenzie said
Sarasota Memorial, the region's public, safety-net hospital, "sets the
benchmark" for care. "People don't have to leave the state or even their
community to get the best quality of care," she said Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      June 12, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Hackensack University Medical Center: The Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital
at Hackensack University Medical Center Once Again Ranks in U.S. News & World
Report's 2013-14 Best Children's Hospitals Rankings

LENGTH: 533  words


New Delhi, June 12 -- The Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital at Hackensack
University Medical Center is the only children's hospital in New Jersey to be
ranked in Neurology & Neurosurgery in U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best
Children's Hospitals rankings. Ranked 29th, the Joseph M. Sanzari Children's
Hospital was the first hospital in New Jersey ever tobe ranked in anyBest
Children's Hospitals specialty.



"It is an honor to be ranked once again by U.S. News & World Report," said
Robert C. Garrett, president and chief executive officer of the Hackensack
University Health Network. "I would like to recognize Dr. Jeffrey R. Boscamp,
HackensackUMC vice president and chief academic officer and chairman and
physician-in-chief of the Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital; Maureen
Keating, vice president of the Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital; Dr. Arno
Fried, chairman and director of the Neuroscience Institute; Dr. Stephen
Thompson, chief of Pediatric Neurology; and our entire team for providing such
world-class care in our patient-centered facility."

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of these pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology,
gastroenterology & GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology &
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. Eighty-seven hospitals
ranked in at least one of the 10 specialties.

"The Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital at HackensackUMC deserves high
praise," said Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow. "Ranking shows the
dedication and expertise that HackensackUMC brings to the care of children who
need those qualities the most. We think it is important to identify and call
attention to pediatric centers like this one."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of sick children find the best medical care available. The rankings
offer families an exclusive look at quality-related information at the
individual hospital level.

Each hospital's reputation among doctors was only a small part of what U.S. News
factored into its rankings. Three-quarters of each hospital's score was
determined through an analysis of patient outcomes and data on the structural
resources each hospital has for pediatric care. To gather data, U.S. News used
two surveys: a clinical questionnaire sent to 179 pediatric hospitals and, for
the reputational assessment, asurvey of 150 pediatric specialists and
subspecialists in each specialty. The 1,500 physicians were asked where they
would send the sickest children in their specialty, setting aside location and
expense.

"Every day, we work tirelessly to provide our pediatric patients with the best
healthcare possible," said Dr. Boscamp. "We are proud of the award-winning
reputation we have earned. Our patients and their families can expect nothing
but the highest level of care and compassion when they choose us for their
treatment."

Survival rates, adequacy of nurse staffing, procedure volume, and much more can
be viewed on http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings and will
be published in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available beginning
in August.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      June 12, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospital Los Angeles Earns Back-to-Back Top Five Rankings in the U.S.
News & World Report Survey of the Nation's Best Children's Hospitals

LENGTH: 872  words


New Delhi, June 12 -- For the fifth year in a row, Children's Hospital Los
Angeles has been named to the elite Honor Roll of the nation's "best" children's
hospitals in the U.S. News & World Report rankings released online today. It is
one of only 10 children's hospitals in the country and the only West Coast
pediatric medical center to make the list. Children's Hospital Los Angeles also
secured a fifth place overall national ranking, repeating its placement from
last year's survey.



"This acknowledgement by U.S. News & World Report recognizes Children's Hospital
Los Angeles as a world-class institution in health care for children," says
Richard D. Cordova, FACHE, president and CEO, Children's Hospital Los Angeles.
"Our success is a reflection of the outstanding skills of our doctors, nurses,
clinical staff and physician support team who helped to maintain this
institution's top five national ranking and our title of 'best' among pediatric
medical institutions."

The Best Children's Hospitals list pulls together clinical and operational data
in 10 different pediatric medical specialties from a lengthy survey, completed
by the majority of the 179 pediatric centers asked to participate in the
rankings. U.S. News required hard data such as availability of key resources and
ability to prevent complications and infections, as well as survival rates,
nurse staffing, subspecialist availability, procedure volume and many more
pieces of critical information. The data from the survey is combined with
recommendations from pediatric specialists on the hospitals they consider best
for children with challenging medical conditions.

This year, Children's Hospital Los Angeles equaled or improved its national
ranking in seven of the 10 categories compared to the 2012-2013 survey, and its
outstanding overall scores placed it among the top five nationally and as the
only children's hospital on the West Coast to receive the honor. Its rankings in
the top 10 medical specialties are: cancer #4 (up from #5 in 2012-2013);
cardiology & heart surgery #7 (up from #9 in 2012-2013); diabetes &
endocrinology #5 (up from #7 in 2012-2013); gastroenterology & gastrointestinal
surgery #8; neonatology #8; nephrology #18 (up from #21 in 2012-2013); neurology
& neurosurgery #15; orthopedics #4 (up from #6 in 2012-2013); pulmonology #14
and urology #18.

Children's hospitals that achieve exceptional scores in at least three pediatric
specialties are named to the magazine's "Honor Roll" of Best Children's
Hospitals. Children's Hospital Los Angeles was joined by nine other hospitals on
this prestigious list for 2013-14: Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Boston
Children's Hospital, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Texas
Children's Hospital in Houston, St. Louis Children's Hospital-Washington
University, Children's Hospital Colorado in Aurora, Colo., Ann and Robert H.
Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Johns Hopkins Children's Center in
Baltimore and Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC.

"Children's Hospital Los Angeles is the number one children's hospital on the
West Coast and provides the best possible care for the children in our
community," says Cordova. "In the past year, our Board of Trustees and our
Safety and Quality Services Committee have contributed considerably to help
achieve this tremendous ranking. In addition, our philanthropic efforts have
been outstanding and have allowed us to recruit renowned faculty and physicians
to support our pediatric clinical and research missions. This acknowledgement
from U.S. News honors their exceptional efforts."

Children's Hospital Los Angeles has been providing high quality pediatric care
to Southern California residents for 112 years. Since the 2011 opening of the
hospital's state-of-the-art inpatient tower, the Marion and John E. Anderson
Pavilion, the hospital has achieved Magnet redesignation for nursing excellence;
twice earned Top Hospital designation for safety and quality by The Leapfrog
Group; enhanced its Division of Neurosurgery with an $11 million gift from the
estate of Oscar-winning filmmaker Billy Wilder and his wife Audrey; and
symbolically merged its two campuses, the Anderson Pavilion and The Saban
Research Institute, with the construction of a $10 million bridge over Sunset
Boulevard that was jointly funded by philanthropists Marion Anderson and Cheryl
Saban, and their respective spouses, John E. Anderson and Haim Saban. In
addition, the hospital has expanded its clinical operations to the Greater Los
Angeles communities of the Santa Clarita Valley, the San Fernando Valley and the
South Bay.

Children's Hospital Los Angeles has been selected to the Honor Roll every year
since the esteemed list launched in 2009, and Children's Hospital Los Angeles
has been named among the nation's best children's hospitals annually since the
inception of the magazine's rankings in 1990.

The annual new rankings recognize the top 50 children's hospitals in 10
pediatric specialties. Eighty-seven hospitals are ranked in at least one
specialty. U.S. News Media Group, the parent of U.S. News & World Report,
announced the 2013 - 2014 hospital rankings at 12:01 a.m. ET on Tuesday, June 11
at www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday

Advocate Children's Hospital ranks among the top 50 hospitals in U.S. for
cardiology and heart surgery

BYLINE: Lisa Parro

SECTION: SUBMITTED CONTENT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 725 words


June 27, 2017 - For the seventh consecutive year, Advocate Children's Heart
Institute has been listed among the nation's top 50 pediatric hospitals for
cardiology and heart surgery in U.S. News & World Report's 2017-18 Best
Children's Hospitals rankings published online today.

Advocate Children's Heart Institute, part of Advocate Children's Hospital, is
ranked 28th on the list. In two years, the hospital moved up from its previous
ranking of 42. Advocate Children's Hospital's two main campuses are in Oak Lawn
and Park Ridge.

"The fact that our team at the Advocate Children's Heart Institute has received
this same recognition for seven consecutive years is a tribute to its
exceptional patient outcomes," says Mike Farrell, President, Advocate Children's
Hospital. "In just two years, we have moved up 14 places on the list of top 50
hospitals to become the 28th best program in the nation. We take great pride in
this accomplishment."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of children with rare or life-threatening illnesses find the best
medical care available. They are the only comprehensive source of
quality-related information on U.S. pediatric centers.

The 11th annual rankings recognize the top 50 pediatric facilities across the
U.S. in 10 pediatric specialties, including cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology and gastrointestinal
surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics,
pulmonology and urology.

"The pediatric centers we rank in Best Children's Hospitals deliver
exceptionally high-quality care and deserve to be recognized for their
commitment," said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow. "Children with
life-threatening illnesses or rare conditions need the state-of-the-art services
and expertise these hospitals provide every day."

"It is an honor to be recognized for the seventh consecutive year as one of the
top pediatric cardiology and heart surgery programs by U.S. News & World
Report," says Dr. David Roberson, medical director, pediatric cardiology,
Advocate Children's Hospital. "Advocate Children's Hospital serves as a major
referral center for pregnant mothers, infants and adults throughout the area
touching thousands of lives each year. We remain dedicated to providing the very
best diagnoses, technology, treatment and expertise to deliver the safest care
possible to these very precious lives."

The U.S. News Best Children's Hospitals rankings rely on clinical data and on an
annual survey of pediatric specialists. The rankings methodology considers
clinical outcomes, such as mortality and infection rates, efficiency and
coordination of care delivery and compliance with "best practices."

Survival rates, adequacy of nurse staffing, procedure and patient volume,
availability of programs for particular illnesses and conditions and much more
can be viewed on http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings.

This year's rankings will be published in the U.S. News & World Report's "Best
Hospitals 2018" guidebook and available on newsstands September 12. Visit Best
Children's Hospitals for the complete rankings and use #BestHospitals on
Facebook and Twitter.

###

About Advocate Children's Hospital

As part of Advocate Health Care, Advocate Children's Hospital is the largest
network provider of pediatric services in Illinois and among the top 10 in the
nation. The two main campuses are located in the Chicago metropolitan region -
Oak Lawn in the southwest and Park Ridge in the northwest, with additional
services accessible at other Advocate hospitals throughout the state. Advocate
Children's Hospital serves as a major referral center for infants and children.
Through a special, holistic approach, Advocate Children's Hospital combines some
of the country's most respected medical talent with exceptional and
compassionate care. In fact, the children's hospital has been recognized by U.S.
News & World Report as one of the nation's leaders in pediatric cardiology and
neonatology, and numerous physicians have been cited as being among the "Top
Doctors" regionally and nationally in their respective fields. Advocate
Children's Hospital is staffed by more than 400 pediatricians and 230 pediatric
subspecialists who offer a wide range of services for children.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              28 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday

Two Youngstown hospitals among best in state

BYLINE: Jamison Cocklin, Vindicator, Youngstown, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 723 words


July 16--YOUNGSTOWN -- U.S. News & World Report has ranked both St. Elizabeth
Health Center and St. Elizabeth Boardman Health Center among Ohio's best
hospitals, giving both high marks in several specialties.

Akron Children's Hospital, which has a 32-bed inpatient campus and emergency
room in Boardman, was nationally ranked in seven pediatric specialties, cancer,
diabetes, orthopedics, urology, pulmonology, neurology and nephrology.

The hospital was one of 87 facilities nationwide that made the rankings in at
least one of the 10 specialties analyzed for the 2013-2014 Best Children's
Hospitals rankings.

St. Elizabeth Health Center in Youngstown is ranked No. 24 in Ohio. The hospital
is listed as high-performing in five specialties: geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, pulmonology and urology.

St. Elizabeth Boardman Health Center is ranked No. 30 in the state and is
recognized as high-performing in pulmonology.

Published annually as a part of its "Best" series of consumer guides that
include rankings of colleges, graduate schools and cars and trucks, the latest
"Best Hospitals" list pulled data from 4,806 hospitals nationwide by examining
each location's performance across 16 specialties. Within them, patient survival
and safety data, the adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other objective data
largely determined the rankings.

In most specialties, U.S. News ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and
recognizes other high-performing hospitals that provide care at nearly the level
of their nationally ranked peers.

Shawn Lyden, executive vice president of Akron Children's Hospital, said its
places among this year's rankings are some of its best ever. The hospital ranked
in the top 30 in four specialties, and its department of orthopedics was ranked
22nd. He said it helps the hospital's national credibility.

"We've always, at Akron Children's Hospital, prided ourselves on the services we
provide," Lyden said. "But we've never been too fixated on things like rankings.
This is just our national reputation catching up with what we have always
thought was great substance."

Across all 16 specialties, only 147 U.S. hospitals performed well enough to be
nationally ranked in one or more. An additional 591 were regional high
performers.

"We are especially proud of this recognition," said Robert Shroder, president
and CEO of Humility of Mary Health Partners, which owns and operates both St.
Elizabeth locations. "It independently verifies that our hospitals provide a
high level of care, eliminating the need for area residents to travel out of
town to receive quality care. I have to give credit to our doctors, nurses,
support staff and board members for concentrating on quality outcomes for our
patients."

St. Joseph Health Center in Warren, another Humility of Mary Health Partners
hospital that was ranked No. 27 in Ohio last year, did not appear in the
rankings this year.

The rankings are intended to help consumers find the best inpatient-care
facilities in the country, but the publication encourages its readers to conduct
their own research and acknowledges that some hospitals better suited for local
treatment are not always included on the list.

Karyn Frederick, executive director of the Mahoning County Medical Society,
which represents nearly 500 practicing, retired and resident physicians in
Mahoning County, said it's great that local hospitals are included on the list,
but she said just because some are not included does not mean they are
inadequate, adding that the methodology of the study is like comparing "apples
to oranges" in some cases.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Md., is the nation's top-ranked hospital,
according to U.S. News. Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston is second this
year, and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., is ranked third. Ohio's top
hospital was the Cleveland Clinic, ranked nationally in 14 specialties.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News health rankings editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

___ (c)2013 Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) Visit Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) at
www.vindy.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130716-YU-Two-Youngstown-hospitals-among-best-in-state-20130716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YU


                           Copyright 2013 Vindicator


                              29 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 21, 2013 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

NWH Recognized as a Top Hospital for Gynecology, Geriatrics, Urology,
Orthopedics, and Neurosurgery

LENGTH: 392  words


New Delhi, July 21 -- Northern Westchester Hospital Announced today that it has
been ranked as one of the best hospitals in New York for 2013-14 by U.S. News &
World Report.  The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th
year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.
In addition to being recognized as a Best Hospital, Northern Westchester
Hospital was recognized regionally for expertise in Gynecology, Urology,
Geriatrics, Orthopedics, and Neurosurgery.



"Providing the highest quality, patient centered care is the primary focus of
the staff and physicians at Northern Westchester Hospital.  The Joint Commission
lists NWH among the top 5% highest quality hospitals in the U.S. and recently
AARP The Magazine reported NWH was ranked among the safest hospitals in America
by the Leapfrog Group.  We are proud of the high level of dedication to patient
care by our staff and are pleased to see this being recognized by national
organizations, including U.S. News and World Report," commented Joel Seligman,
President and CEO of Northern Westchester Hospital.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties.  In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age.  Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C.  Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.  The
rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 15, 2012 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Brigham and Women's Hospital Ranks Among Top 10 Hospitals in the Nation

LENGTH: 314  words


New Delhi, Sept. 15 -- Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) is once again
recognized as one of the nation's top hospitals, ranking ninth in the 2012 U.S.
News & World Report Honor Roll of America's Best Hospitals. This year marks the
20th consecutive year that Brigham and Women's Hospital has appeared on the
Honor Roll.



"Our presence for the past two decades on the U.S. News & World Report Honor
Roll serves as a tangible symbol of our community's dedication to the mission of
this great academic medical center," said Betsy Nabel MD, president of BWH.
"This ranking is also a clear reflection of the commitment and talent of our
staff and employees who day in and day out deliver the best, safest care
possible to our patients and their families."

In this year's ranking of the nation's top hospitals, BWH ranked among the top
10 in seven categories: Cancer, Cardiology and Heart Surgery, Diabetes and
Endocrinology, Gynecology, Nephrology, Pulmonology and Rheumatology. BWH placed
in the top 20 in Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, and Neurology and Neurosurgery.

Once again, BWH and Massachusetts General Hospital were the only hospitals in
New England to be on the top 10 Honor Roll, making Boston the only city in the
country to have more than one hospital in the top 10.

U.S. News analyzed data on nearly 4,800 medical centers to produce this year's
rankings of hospitals that demonstrate unusually high expertise across multiple
specialties. Only 148 hospitals earned a national ranking in one or more of the
16 specialties, which include cancer, cardiology & heart surgery, orthopedics
and pulmonology. Just 17 evaluated for the 2012-2013 rankings qualified scoring
at or near the top in at least six of 16 specialties. The rankings, now
available online at www.usnews.com/besthospitals, will be published in the
magazine's August issue as part of it 2011-2012 Best Hospitals guide.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday
                              TUE REGIONAL Edition

MORE NEWS

BYLINE: John Ingold

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 395 words


The University of Colorado Hospital is the 15th best hospital in the country,
according to this year's edition of the prestigious U.S. News & World Report
rankings.

The measure is an improvement from last year, when CU ranked 20th in the
country, and it marks the highest a Colorado hospital has ever scored in the
overall rankings.

"We are obviously very thrilled and excited," said Will Cook, the CEO of
University of Colorado Hospital.

In the specialty of pulmonology, which deals with the lungs, U.S. News ranked
Denver's National Jewish Health the top hospital in the country. National Jewish
has been the first or second best hospital for pulmonology in the rankings every
year for more than two decades. The hospital is listed in the top spot this year
alongside University of Colorado Hospital, with which it shares an academic
affiliation.

"We are proud to be recognized as the leading respiratory hospital in the
nation," Dr. Michael Salem, the president and CEO of National Jewish Health,
said in a statement.

U.S. News compiles the rankings by looking at objective measurements of care
such as whether fewer patients die of certain conditions at the hospital than
would be expected based on national averages and patient safety. The rankings
also take into account a survey of about 16,000 doctors.

Overall, The Mayo Clinic in Minnesota was ranked as the nation's best hospital.

Dr. Jeff Glasheen, the chief quality officer for the broader UCHealth system,
said the rankings have in recent years placed more emphasis on the quality and
safety measurements and less on the survey. That, he said, has helped University
of Colorado Hospital ascend up the charts as it worked to improve patient
outcomes.

He pointed specifically to the hospital's efforts to control sepsis, a life
threatening infection that occurs most commonly in people who are hospitalized.
In the last year, the hospital has cut its death rate from sepsis by 10 percent.

"Which translates to around 30 patients per year who survive their stay who
wouldn't have," Glasheen said.

There were 12 hospitals in Colorado this year that scored highly enough and met
other eligibility criteria to be included in the U.S. News rankings.

Porter Adventist Hospital in Denver ranked second in the state, while Rose
Medical Center ranked third.

John Ingold: 303 954 1068, jingold@denverpost.com or twitter.com/johningold

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Akrum Al-Zubaidi, middle, performs a bronchoscopy on Orlando
Carrasco with the help of his team: Ana Stefan, Mike Galloway and Michael
Kessler. Helen H. Richardson, The Denver Post
Kathy Kramer asks patient John Castona to take big breaths at National Jewish
Health. Helen H. Richardson, The Denver Post

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 28, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A healthy disagreement;
Which hospitals are best? Even the experts can't agree

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell, @JayneODonnell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1280 words


Nearly 40% of consumers surveyed last year said they use hospital ratings to
choose a health care facility, but there's little agreement among the lists,
raising questions about their value.

Consumers pore over reviews and ratings of everything from cars to washing
machines, but it's doctor and hospital rankings that may be the most confusing
and controversial. At least 15 different groups rank health care organizations,
but no two judge them the same way, which leads to widely divergent results,
says Brent James, a medical doctor who is chief quality officer at Intermountain
Healthcare in Salt Lake City.

"On some of those, we look pretty bad and on others we're golden; the best in
the nation," James says. "All of us publish newspaper ads that say we're the
best on one or another."

U.S. News & World Report, which has been ranking hospitals for 20 years, met
with dozens of hospital leaders Thursday to discuss ways to improve its own
list, which some doctors who head hospitals say is the best. Still, participants
grappled with issues including how and whether to rate a hospital's
"reputation," if a hospital's lower-income patient popula-tion should be
factored into the rankings and whether a hospital's more advanced technology or
even its ranking really relates to what a patient will actually experience
there.

What's a consumer to make of it all?

The survey of consumers' views on hospitals, by the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation and Harvard School of Public Health, found Americans evenly split on
whether they think there are big or small differences in the quality of care
among their local hospitals. And while 38% said they rely on rankings to choose
a hospital, 57% said they'd more likely go to a hospital they were familiar with
than they would go to one because it had a high ranking.

The U.S. News rankings are "as comprehensive a picture as possible of the
quality of hospitals in this country," says Peter Slavin, an internal medicine
doctor and president of Massachusetts General Hospital, which ranked first.

When Consumer Reports came out with its best hospitals list in July, however,
Mass. General was in about "the middle of the pack," in his own state, much less
the country, says Slavin. Consumer Reports ranks based only on safety, which
some argue is too narrow a focus.

"Different people care about different things," says Slavin. "Some are focused
on safety, others on service and convenience, or are looking for the most
innovative places where they are helping to write the textbooks -- not just read
them."

Safety in a hospital generally refers to avoiding harm caused by the doctor or
facility, such as a result of infection or post-operative complications.

While the magazine ultimately gave NYC hospitals, overall, low marks, Consumer
Reports did change its methodology to reflect some suggestions it received from
hospitals in the city, says John Santa, an internal medicine doctor who heads
the magazine's health ratings center. Its ratings, started in 2010, have also
been expanded to include a composite safety score and several new elements, such
as the likelihood a hospital would expose patients to the radiation in two CAT
scans rather than just one.

Other discrepancies between lists:

New York City's Peninsula Hospital Center was ranked relatively high for safety
by Consumer Reports this summer but was facing serious financial issues and was
shut down by the state because of safety problems three months before the
magazine came out. Santa calls the focus on Peninsula "a distraction by NYC
hospitals who cannot explain their poor performances."

The Joint Commission, which accredits health care facilities, released its list
of the "Top Performers" among hospitals last week, and it didn't include some of
the most respected, such as Baltimore's Johns Hopkins, which had long topped
U.S. News' list until Mass. General unseated it this year. Joint Commission
spokesman Bret Coons says it doesn't consider its list "a hospital ranking" and
says it is recognizing hospitals on "accountability measures" they report to its
Joint Commission.

And NYC's Mount Sinai Medical Center -- which hosted the meeting -- was 14th on
U.S. News' list while Consumer Reports' says the hospital is a "consistently
poor performer." Kenneth Davis, Mount Sinai's CEO, questions Consumer Reports'
ability to distinguish between hospitals: "This isn't like rating automobiles.
This is very complicated."

Santa says his ratings are more unbiased because the magazine doesn't accept
advertising or allow its brand be used in ads, and it has a long history in
patient safety.

U.S. News editor Brian Kelly acknowledges its ratings won't help every consumer.

"Ours are for high-level, specialty hospitals where you go if you are really
sick or got a big problem," says Kelly. "If you're going in to have a wart
removed, we can't help you with that."

While several of the hospital officials appeared to agree with Kelly's
characterization of U.S. News' rankings as the "gold standard," Davis and others
urged the magazine to make changes. Davis says the ratings should also factor in
the technological advancements, such as how "wired" a hospital is with medical
records.

Kelly says, though, that he thinks it's important his rankings take into
consideration that many of the hospitals accept the "tricky cases  the people
often have illnesses that have a high risk of death." Davis says these factors,
as well as mortality rates, should better emphasize the physical condition of
the patients some hospitals treat most frequently.

When rankings are adjusted for factors including race or socioeconomic status,
you "hide what is happening to those people," says Santa. And when it comes to
infections, he says, prevention is equal opportunity.

"Hospital infections can be prevented in all cases," he says. "There is no
evidence hospital infections are less preventable in African-Americans or
low-income persons."

One thing that all sides seem to agree on is that there is a larger benefit to
society if hospitals work to improve their rankings on the myriad lists.

While "rankings are not hugely accurate," James of Salt Lake City says they
prompt hospitals to focus "on better patient care, which is what they should
focus on."

"We welcome others wading into the challenge of figuring out what's wrong with
U.S. hospitals," says Santa. "They certainly have not figured it out
themselves."

---

'CONSUMER REPORTS' RANKINGS BY SAFETY

1. Billings Clinic, Billings, Mont.

2. Saint Clare's Hospital, Weston, Wis.

3. Alton Memorial Hospital, Alton, Ill.

4. Cent.  Vermont Medical Center, Berlin, Vt.

5. Kadlec Medical Center, Richland, Wash.

6. St. John's Hospital, Springfield, Mo.

7. Mayo Clinic Hospital, Phoenix

8. Northern Michigan Regional Hospital, Petoskey, Mich.

9. Bon Secours St. Francis Health System, Greenville, S.C.

10. Memorial Hospital of Union County, Marysville, Ohio

U.S. NEWS' 'HONOR ROLL' OF HOSPITALS

1. Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston

2. Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore

3. Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

4. Cleveland Clinic

5. Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles

6. Barnes-Jewish Hospital/Washington University, St. Louis

7. New York-Presbyterian University Hospital of Columbia and Cornell, N.Y.

8. Duke Univ. Med. Center, Durham, N.C.

9. Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston

10. UPMC-University of Pittsburgh Medical Center

11. NYU Langone Medical Center, New York

12. Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago

13. UCSF Medical Center, San Francisco

14. Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York

15. Hospital of the University of Pennsyl- vania, Philadelphia

16. Indiana University Health, Indianapolis

17. University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, Ann Arbor

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                  The Clinch County News (Homerville, Georgia)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                January 29, 2014

CMH gets high marks in patient satisfaction rankings

BYLINE: The Clinch County News staff

LENGTH: 308  words


Clinch Memorial Hospital patients are among the most satisfied in the country,
according to an analysis done by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS).

The Pay-For-Performance Measure Trends Analysis collected by CMS showed Clinch
Memorial had the top ranking in the state out of 112 Georgia hospitals in
"Communication with Nurses," and finished second in the state in five other
categories - "Communication with Doctors," "Responsiveness of Staff,"
"Communication about Medicines," "Patient's Rooms and Bathrooms Were Always Kept
Clean," and overall rating of hospital.

"I want to convey to the community that we are good, but still have a ways to go
to be the best," said new CMH Administrator Greg Brown. "We are particularly
proud 'of the #1 ranking for communication with nurses. As a organization, we
want to make all of the #2s into #ls and focus initially on making the not so
good rankings into single digits as soon as possible. The hospital staff is
excited about the rankings and have accepted the challenge to strive for better
ranking scores."

There were three other categories in the rankings. In "Pain Management," CMH was
fourth in the state. In "Area Around Patient's Room Always Kept Quiet At Night,"
CMH was 11th in the state. And in "Discharge Information," Clinch Memorial was
106th out of 112 state hospitals.

The overall rating of the hospital was 83% (2nd in state and 234th out of 3,891
nationally). In the "Communication with Nurses" category, CMH was 25th
nationally out of 3,903 hospitals in the United States. CMH also was in the top
100 in "Communication with Doctors" (92nd), "Communication about Medicines"
(95th), and patient room and bathroom cleanliness (77th) nationally.

You can find more information about Clinch Memorial's and other hospital's
rankings at. http://healthinsight.org/rankings/hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Accomplishment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCH

                      Copyright 2014 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2014 The Clinch County News


                              34 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 13, 2002 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Magazine praises Moffitt in latest hospital rankings

BYLINE: RYAN MEEHAN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


The national reputation of H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center got another boost Friday
when it was ranked 10th in the U.S. News & World Report annual list of best
cancer hospitals.

The magazine, which analyzed data from 205 medical centers nationwide, rated
Moffitt just below Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Johns Hopkins and the Mayo Clinic.

Patricia Goldsmith, a Moffitt spokeswoman, said the distinction is a tribute to
the 15-year-old center's doctors, nurses and researchers.

"These (other institutions) are decades older than ours," Goldsmith said. "It
tells you we're doing something right."

The magazine's rankings are based on several categories, including mortality
rates, the ratio of nurses to beds and technology services. Also critical is a
hospital's reputation among doctors nationwide.

Moffitt, on the University of South Florida campus, didn't even make the list
four years ago. Last year it was ranked 21st.

Three other Tampa Bay area hospitals made the magazine's Top 50 in different
specialties.

Bayonet Point Regional Medical Center in Hudson was ranked 27th in hearts and
heart surgery. Tampa General Hospital ranked 47th in the kidney disease
category.

St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa made the list in two areas: 48th for urology and
34th for digestive disorders.

Dr. Frank Mastandrea, a urologist at St. Joseph's, attributes the department's
rise to younger doctors' being trained to perform more complex surgeries and the
hospital's investment in detecting and treating prostate cancer.

"It's nice to know someone noticed," Mastandrea said.

Not everyone holds the U.S. News rankings in high esteem.

Bill Hervey, a spokesman for Bayfront Medical Center in St. Petersburg, which
didn't make the list, said there are hundreds of entities that rank hospitals
each year. Some, he said, even strike deals in which hospitals are ranked in the
top 10 but then have to pay the ranking organization to use the distinction in
their marketing.

While Hervey said he isn't trying to diminish the achievements of area
hospitals, he said only one ranking matters to Bayfront, that of the Joint
Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations. "It's the gold
standard," Hervey said.

In 2000, he said, Bayfront received the commission's highest ranking -
accreditation with commendation.

Other Florida hospitals making the list were Shands Hospital at the University
of Florida, Florida Hospital Medical Center in Orlando and the Mayo Clinic in
Jacksonville.

Rankings

Tampa Bay area hospitals included in the U.S. News & World Report national
rankings:

Cancer: H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center (No. 10)

Urology: St. Joseph's Hospital (No. 48)

Digestive disorders: St. Joseph's Hospital (No. 34)

Kidney disease: Tampa General Hospital (No. 47)

Hearts and heart surgery: Bayonet Point Regional Medical Center (No. 27)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              35 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 17, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

NWH Recognized as a Top Hospital for Gynecology, Geriatrics, Urology,
Orthopedics, and Neurosurgery

LENGTH: 385  words


New Delhi, July 17 -- Northern Westchester Hospital Announced today that it has
been ranked as one of the best hospitals in New York for 2013-14 by U.S. News &
World Report.  The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th
year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.
In addition to being recognized as a Best Hospital, Northern Westchester
Hospital was recognized regionally for expertise in Gynecology, Urology,
Geriatrics, Orthopedics, and Neurosurgery.

"Providing the highest quality, patient centered care is the primary focus of
the staff and physicians at Northern Westchester Hospital.  The Joint Commission
lists NWH among the top 5% highest quality hospitals in the U.S. and recently
AARP The Magazine reported NWH was ranked among the safest hospitals in America
by the Leapfrog Group.  We are proud of the high level of dedication to patient
care by our staff and are pleased to see this being recognized by national
organizations, including U.S. News and World Report," commented Joel Seligman,
President and CEO of Northern Westchester Hospital.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty.



U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties.  In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age.  Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C.  Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.  The
rankings have been published .

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

DMC Children's Hospital of Michigan Earns Top Rankings from U.S. News & World
Report

LENGTH: 294  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- DMC Children's Hospital of Michigan is among the best in
the country in pediatric specialties according to the U.S. News & World Report's
2012-13 Best Children's Hospitals rankings. DMC Children's Hospital of Michigan
ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, neonatology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopaedics, pulmonary and urology.

The rankings recognize the top 50 children's hospitals in each of the 10
pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. Eighty hospitals across the
country ranked in one or more specialties.

For families of sick children, Best Children's Hospitals provides unparalleled
quality-related information in addition to rankings, including survival rates,
adequacy of nurse staffing, procedure volume, and much more. Since their 2007
debut, the rankings have put an increasing emphasis on data that directly
reflect hospitals' performance over the opinions of physicians.

In its sixth year, U.S. News surveyed 178 pediatric centers to obtain hard data
such as availability of key resources and ability to prevent complications and
infections. The hospital survey made up 75 percent of the rankings. A separate
reputational survey in which 1,500 pediatric specialists-150 in each
specialty-were asked where they would send the sickest children in their
specialty made up the remaining 25 percent.

Survey rankings are available online at www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals. The
U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, available in August, will also include
the rankings.

To learn more about Children's Hospital of Michigan, visit www.childrensdmc.org.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL NAMED BEST IN STATE IN LATEST US NEWS LIST

BYLINE:  LARRY AVILA lavila@madison.com, 608-252-6155

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 337 words


UW Hospital and Clinics is the state's top hospital for the fifth consecutive
year and is among the nation's top 50 hospitals in nine medical and surgical
specialties, one fewer than last year, according to U.S. News and World Report's
latest rankings released Tuesday.

UW's national rankings in the specialties are cancer, 43rd; gastroenterology/GI
surgery, 30th; geriatrics, 30th; gynecology, 13th; nephrology, 28th; neurology
and neurosurgery, 40th; orthopedics, 50th; pulmonology, 33rd; and urology, 21st.
UW last year ranked 49th in ear, nose and throat but did not rank in the
category this year.

UW also rated high-performing for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair, aortic
valve surgery, heart bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), hip and knee replacements and lung
cancer surgery.

St. Mary's Hospital ranked sixth among Wisconsin hospitals, up two spots from
last year. The hospital received high-performing marks for AAA, congestive heart
failure, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), congestive heart failure (CHF),
colon cancer surgery, COPD, and hip and knee replacements.

Meriter Hospital finished in a five-way tie for seventh, an improvement from its
eighth- place ranking last year. It earned high-performing ratings for care of
CHF, COPD, and hip and knee replacements.

Mercy Health Hospital in Janesville ranked fourth in the state, a three-place
improvement from 2015. Mercy also ranked 29th nationally in urology and received
a high-performing specialty ranking in nephrology. Mercy also received
high-performing marks for CHF, COPD and colon care.

No Wisconsin hospitals made the 2016-17 Best Hospitals Honor Roll. Topping that
list was Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, followed by Cleveland Clinic;
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore; and
UCLA Medical Center.

This is the 27th list of hospital rankings released by U.S. News and World
Report, which compared nearly 5,000 hospitals around the country.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOHN HART - State Journal UW Hospital and Clinics, which U.S. News and
World Report ranked among the nation's top 50 hospitals -- and the best in the
state -- was named 43rd in cancer treatment.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday

BYLINE: Tribune Staff report

SECTION: DAKOTA WIRE

LENGTH: 336 words


St Alexius Medical Center in Bismarck received the most "above average" or
"better than expected" procedure or diagnoses rankings among the state's 56
hospitals reviewed by Health-Grades, a group that disseminates information on
hospital patient safety activities to consumers, payers and employers.

HealthGrades, which also provides reports to professional medical liability
insurance underwriters for nursing homes, hospitals and physicians that assist
those companies in assessing risk and verifying background information, gave St.
Alexius eight "above average" rankings out of 25 procedures or diagnoses
performed at the hospital.

Medcenter One of Bismarck was one of six other hospitals receiving "above
average" rankings with five of 27 procedures or diagnoses performed. The others
were Altru Hospital in Grand Forks (six of 25), Innovis Health of Fargo (five of
26), Meritcare Health Systems of Fargo (four of 27), Mercy Hospital of Valley
City (two of six) and Mercy Medical Center in Williston (two of 14).

Several procedural-diagnoses rankings of "best" were awarded to the state's
hospitals, while some rankings were "average" or "poor." Several hospitals were
not ranked because of a lack of statistically required volume. The complete list
of rankings can be found on the Net at http://www.healthgrades.com/hospital
-directory/north-dakota-nd.

St. Alexius was given "excellence awards" in the following areas: cardiac care,
cardiac surgery, coronary intervention, gastrointestinal care, gastrointestinal
surgery and joint replace-ment. It also received five-star rankings in care in
the areas of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary interventional
procedures (angioplasty/stent), gastrointestinal surgeries and procedures, heart
attack, heart bypass surgery, valve replacement surgery and pneumonia.

Medcenter One had five-star ratings in care in the areas of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, heart attack, heart failure, resection/replacement of
abdominal aorta, respiratory failure and stroke.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2007 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The News-Gazette (Champaign, Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Carle listed as No. 14 hospital in Illinois

BYLINE: DEBRA PRESSEY, The News-Gazette, Champaign-Urbana, Ill.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 318 words


July 18--URBANA _ A new ranking of the nation's best hospitals has placed Carle
Foundation Hospital 14th on the list in Illinois.

The 24th annual rankings done by U.S. News & World Report looked at nearly 5,000
medical centers in the country and 16 medical specialties, with Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore ranked at the top of a national honor roll of 18
hospitals.

The only Illinois hospital to make the national honor roll was Northwestern
Memorial Hospital in Chicago, ranked sixth.

Carle was ranked 14th overall out of 220 hospitals in Illinois and was ranked
"high-performing" in 10 specialties: cancer; cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology and GI
surgery; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology; orthopedics; and pulmonology.

Many hospitals weren't ranked _ among them the two Presence Health hospitals in
Urbana and Danville. But information is still provided for unranked hospitals,
such as their adult specialties and customer satisfaction ratings.

Other ranked hospitals in central Illinois included Memorial Medical Center in
Springfield, 28th and high performing in three specialties, and OSF St. Joseph
Medical Center in Bloomington, 35th and high-performing in one specialty.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings are updated each July.

Hospitals were ranked for their performance in four of the specialties based on
physician surveys and for 12 of the specialties using data from Medicare and
other sources.

Across the 16 specialties, 147 U.S. hospitals performed well enough to be
nationally ranked in one or more specialty. Another 591 hospitals were
considered regional high performers, the publication said.

The complete rankings are available at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

___ (c)2013 The News-Gazette (Champaign, Ill.) Visit The News-Gazette
(Champaign, Ill.) at www.news-gazette.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130718-CM-HOSPITAL-RANKING-20130718

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CM


                        Copyright 2013 The News-Gazette


                              40 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UPMC ASCENDS IN BEST HOSPITALS RANKINGS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 187 words


U.S. News and World Report's annual best hospitals list includes The University
of Pittsburgh Medical Center as one of the nation's 17 "honor roll" hospitals
for its ranking near the top in six or more specialty areas, the 12th time UPMC
has made the list.

The rankings, released today, listed UPMC 12th nationally, one slot higher than
last year and ahead of the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle.
UPMC is the only Western Pennsylvania hospital to make the honor roll.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore received the top ranking nationally,
followed by Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston; Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minn.; and Cleveland Clinic. University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia was
ranked 10th.

The rankings are based on factors such as death rates, patient safety and number
of procedures, as well as responses to a national survey of physicians who were
asked to name the best hospital in their specialty for the toughest cases.

UPMC's highest ranking in an individual specialty was second, for ear, nose and
throat.

The complete 2011-12 rankings are available at www.usnews.com/besthospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              41 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily Record of Rochester (Rochester, NY)

                              April 1, 2011 Friday

U.S. News ranks University of Rochester Medical Center as top rated Rochester
hospital

BYLINE: Todd Etshman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 478  words


In its first ever regional ranking of major metropolitan area hospitals, U.S.
News and World Report placed the University of Rochester Medical Center as the
top rated hospital in the Rochester area.

The magazine has been ranking hospitals for over 20 years but expanded it this
year to include regional rankings in the 52 largest metropolitan areas,
explained URMC spokeswoman Teri D'Agostino.

The listing recognizes hospitals with a top 25 percent ranking in at least one
of 16 medical specialties.

"We're number one in the Rochester area because we have 11 high performance
specialties," D'Agostino said.

URMC high performance specialties included: cancer, endocrinology,
gastroenterology, geriatrics, gynecology, heart and heart surgery, kidney
disorders, neurology, orthopaedics, pulmonology and urology.

"We know from our own analysis of U.S. News' methodology that a number of URMC's
programs including gynecology, urology and kidney disease are among the top 60
in the nation," said Dr. Robert Panzer, URMC chief quality officer. "So being
recognized in 11 of the 12 specialties that include a quality component (the
other four factors were based on reputation) validates our efforts to
consistently improve the quality and safety of our patients' care and be at the
level of the best programs nationally. "

D'Agostino said the magazine's methodology "is getting better" but is just one
of several hospital rankings and URMC has other ways of comparing itself to
similar hospitals. The University HealthSystem Consortium is URMC's "most
definitive measure" in that it compares URMC against its peers.

D'Agostino said the U.S. News study includes smaller hospitals that may not
offer the same services or serve as many patients.

"U.S. News is something consumers do watch," D'Agostino said. "It's one more
piece of information. When patients are facing serious cancer [for example],
they'll look at resources such as this. "

Of the 13 hospitals in the area, the ranking listed Rochester General Hospital
second with nine ranked specialties and Highland Hospital third with one
(gynecology).

In the Buffalo area, Roswell Park Cancer institute took the top ranking followed
by Buffalo General Hospital and Kenmore Mercy Hospital.

U.S. News also compiled an honor roll of the top hospitals in the country using
the specialty criteria. Baltimore's Johns Hopkins Hospital took the top honor
roll spot followed by the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.

The entire rankings, along with an explanation of the criteria used, may be
found at www.usnews.com/hospitals.

"No matter how skilled or deep their expertise, even 'best hospitals' don't do
everything right," said U.S. News & World Report writer Avery Comarow. "But when
high stakes call for unusual capabilities, they are hospitals that can save
lives that might be lost or preserve quality of life that might be sacrificed. "

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Austen Riggs among top 10 psychiatric hospitals in nation, according to U.S.
News & World Report

BYLINE: By Tony Dobrowolski tdobrowolski@berkshireeagle.com @TonyDobrow on
Twitter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 479 words


STOCKBRIDGE &GT;&GT; With only 74 beds, the Austen Riggs Center is much smaller
than many other well-known psychiatric hospitals. But what it lacks in size, it
makes up for in recognition. National recognition.

Austen Riggs was recently named the country's ninth best hospital in psychiatry
in U.S. News & World Report's 2016-17 list of the nation's best hospitals.

The hospital is not a stranger to these rankings. It has been consistently
ranked among the country's top 10 psychiatric hospitals in U.S. News & World
Report's rankings, which are now in their 27th year.

Austen Riggs placed 10th in the 2015 rankings, and in the top 10 in both 2014
and 2013, according to director of communications Janet Hiser.

"I actually think it speaks volumes about the quality of our work, our history,
and the excellence of the clinical care that we provide," said Hiser, referring
to this year's ranking.

"To be ranked among the top 10 with facilities that have significant university
and research affiliations speaks volumes about what we do here," she said.

Austen Riggs Medical Director/CEO Andrew J. Gerber attributed this year's
ranking to the hospital's program, staff and unique treatment program "that
fosters the development, resilience, and self-direction of adults with complex
psychiatric problems in an open community setting."

Austen Riggs is one of three Massachusetts facilities to be ranked in this
year's top 10 nationally among psychiatric hospitals   Massachusetts General
Hospital and McLean Hospital in Belmont are ranked first and second. Two other
Boston hospitals, Beth Deaconess Medical Center and Brigham & Women's Hospital
are ranked in the top 20 at 17 and 18, respectively. Six New England hospitals
are ranked in the top 25.

According to the rankings, Riggs has only six speciality doctors on staff, much
lower than any other member of the top 10. Mass. General has 406 specialists,
and McLean Hospital, 251.

U.S. New & World Report's rankings are intended to help patients make more
informed health care decisions. This year, the magazine compared nearly 5,000
medical centers nationwide in 25 specialties, procedures and conditions. A total
of 153 hospitals are ranked in at least one speciality.

Hospitals are evaluated on objective measures that include patient survival,
number of patients, and adequacy of nursing staff.

In other business, the Erickson Institute of the Austen Riggs Center will
present the 2016 Erikson Institute Prize for Excellence in Mental Health Media
to three recipients at a colloquy at Austen Riggs at 1 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 20.

This year's recipients include: Benedict Carey, a reporter covering brain and
behavior topics at The New York Times; Neal Shusterman, a New York Times
bestselling novelist, screenwriter and television writer; and Steve Silberman,
an award winning science writer.

Tony Dobrowolski can be reached at 413-496-6224.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday

Dayton hospitals top U.S. rankings;
Low mortality rates land region in No. 1 spot on Health Grades' list.;
HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By RandyTucker

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 431 words


The Dayton area is at the top of a national list ranking hospitals with low
mortality rates, according to a report Tuesday from the health care ratings
firm, Health Grades Inc.

Dayton ranked first, and three other Ohio metros - Cincinnati, Cleveland and
Akron - ranked in the Top 20. The ranking was based on whether the mortality
rate was lower than the national average for 16 different conditions and
procedures. Dayton's in-hospital mortality rate for those conditions ranked
first at 4.68 percent, compared to a 6.52 percent national average.

The rankings were drawn from publicly available data using Medicare cost reports
for 4,500 hospitals across the country, said Dr. Archelle Georgiou, a physician
and adviser to Health Grades.

"Hospitals can't choose to participate or not participate," Georgiou said.
"Sometimes there's a misperception that we promote these hospitals because they
pay to play. But there is no pay to play. These are simply the quality results
they have achieved."

Health Grades reviews hospitals independently but charges hospitals that promote
its ratings.

Underscoring its objectivity, Georgiou said, the only hospital in the Dayton
area to be named in the Health Grades report is not a subscriber.

Kettering Health Network's Grandview Medical Center has been named as one of the
Top 50 hospitals in the nation based on mortality and complication rates across
27 different conditions and procedures for at least the past seven years.

The data was compiled from 2005 to 2011.

Richard Haas, president of Grandview Medical Center, said the rankings, which
include results for Southview Medical Center in Washington Township, reflect
years of dedication in applying evidence-based best practices at the hospitals.

"We just do things consistently," Haas said. "The medical staff and nursing
staff follow the same procedures with every patient."

The rankings, he said, "are a tribute to all of the hospitals in our community
and the quality of care that they give."

While the report was limited in scope, Bryan Bucklew, president and CEO of the
Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association, said the areas under review for the
rankings were the ones that resonate most with patients.

"When people go to the hospital, they want to know No. 1, am I going to die, and
No. 2, if I get something done in the hospital are there going to be
complications?" Bucklew said. "That's what this report looks at, and not only
does it say great things about Grandview, it says good things about the Dayton
region overall."

Contact this reporter at 937-225-2437 or email Randy.Tucker@coxinc.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              44 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

RMC makes list of top regional hospitals

BYLINE: Patrick McCreless, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 832 words


Feb. 28--As far as one national publication is concerned, Regional Medical
Center is one of the best regional hospitals in the nation.

U.S. News and World Report listed the Anniston hospital this year in its annual
Best Regional Hospitals report. Only 140 out of nearly 5,000 surveyed hospitals
across the nation were included among the best regional hospital ranking. This
is the first time RMC has qualified for the ranking.

"That's definitely good," Alabama Hospital Association President Rosemary
Blackmon said of RMC's ranking. "I think the bottom line is people hold this
report in very high regard."

U.S. News defines regional hospitals as those that serve residents living
outside large metropolitan areas.

In a recent press release, U.S. News Health Rankings editor Avery Comarow said
hospitals such as RMC offer a high level of medical care to communities that
otherwise might have limited options.

"All Best Regional Hospitals are what we call 'high performers'," Comarow said.
"They are fully capable of providing first-rate care, even to most patients who
have serious conditions or need demanding procedures."

U.S. News has published the rankings since 1990 to help people find highly
skilled inpatient care. U.S. News determines its rankings by evaluating 16
high-stakes categories at hospitals, such as cardiology and heart surgery,
gastroenterology, neurology and neurosurgery. U.S. News reported that the 140
hospitals ranked were ones that performed well enough in at least one of the 16
specialties.

RMC met the criteria for two specialties, performing at the national level in
gastroenterology along with neurology and neurosurgery.

"And if RMC got two categories and only 140 hospitals were ranked, I think
that's definitely a good thing," Blackmon said.

Gastroenterology includes procedures on the digestive system, including
colonoscopies and removal of esophageal cancer. Neurology and neurosurgery
focuses on a variety of ailments such as strokes, headaches and back, brain and
spinal cord problems.

U.S. News based the rankings of those two specialties on a number of factors,
including the level of nurse staffing and patient volume at the hospital along
with the survival rate for people who have procedures performed there. For
instance, U.S. News stated the survival rate at RMC in the two above specialties
during the past year was better than expected -- with fewer patient deaths
occurring 30 days after admittance compared with the number expected after
adjusting for severity of disease and other risks.

"This is nothing we applied for," Judy Gould, vice president of marketing and
professional services at RMC, said of the ranking. "But we're not surprised at
having it."

Jim Baker, director of surgery at RMC, who oversees several departments
including gastroenterology, or GI, said he only learned about the ranking a
couple of weeks ago but was not surprised by it.

"I've been involved in numerous GI labs over the years and this is an excellent
one," Baker said. "Customer service and patient service are above many other
hospitals."

Last year, RMC performed 8,300 gastroenterological procedures.

"It means a lot to me when equipment representatives come in and are in awe of
how efficient everything runs and the volume we handle," said Donna Burt, charge
nurse for the gastrointestinal lab at RMC. "They deal with hospitals all over
and they'd put us up against the hospitals in Birmingham. The ranking makes me
proud of the gastrointestinal lab."

Dr. Anthony Esposito, neurologist at RMC, said the ranking was encouraging for
all staff at the hospital.

"It gives staff the encouragement that they are doing the right thing," Esposito
said. "Hospitals that can compete with larger ones, I think that's a good
thing."

Esposito said staff in RMC's emergency room as well as its nurses helped the
hospital obtain the ranking through strong patient care. He said a good
emergency room physician must know when to work on a patient and when to send
the patient to a more specialized physician, such as a neurologist.

"Our physicians are very good at that -- at choosing if a patient needs more
aggressive procedures," he said. "And monitoring hydration, blood pressure, just
monitoring the patient ... I think our nurses do a very good job of that."

Diane Hawkins, assistant vice president for patient care services at RMC, said
it's very important to provide quality care for a patient throughout his or her
entire stay at the hospital, not just during his or her medical procedure.

"We have people do hourly rounds to check on patients, to cut down on them
trying to get up and possibly get injured," Hawkins said. "And we assess every
patient for fall risk, particularly stroke patients, and have them wear
bracelets so we can identify them readily."

Staff writer Patrick McCreless: 256-235-3561. On Twitter @PMcCreless_Star

___ (c)2012 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120228-AO-RMC-makes-list-of-top-regional-hospitals-0228-20120228

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2012 The Anniston Star


                              45 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

2 hospitals ranked area's best;
U.S. News & World Report rates facilities.Miami Valley, Kettering tie for 17th
in Ohio in annual rankings.;
HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By Randy Tucker

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 468 words


Miami Valley Hospital and Kettering Medical Center tied as the highest-ranked
hospitals in the Dayton metro area in U.S. News & World Report's 2014-15 "Best
Hospitals'' rankings released Tuesday.

Both hospitals ranked No. 17 in Ohio - the highest ranking in the metro area -
based on such measures as their resources and technologies, patient outcomes
including survival rates, and performance in different specialties, according to
U.S. News.

"This is quite an honor to once again be recognized as a best hospital in the
region," said Roy Chew, president of Kettering Medical Center. "It certainly
speaks to the high level of exceptional care that each patient receives at our
hospital and all Kettering Health Network hospitals."

Mark Shaker, chief executive of Miami Valley Hospital, said his hospital's
ranking was a tribute to the hard work and dedication of its doctors and staff.

"We owe these kinds of accolades to our medical staff and our employees," Shaker
said. "They're the ones that are day-to-day taking care of our patients with
compassion and the highest level of quality."

The annual rankings also rely heavily on hospitals' reputations; this has drawn
criticism from industry insiders who contend that the biggest and best-known
hospitals receive the highest scores based largely on their names.

"A lot of these rating agencies have different formulas and different
approaches, and health systems can't control any of that," Shaker said. "But the
folks who are going to get the most attention are the very large academic
facilities in large cities that we're all very familiar with."

U.S. News responded to the criticism last year by saying its rankings do not
represent hospitals that are the best for every patient but the best medical
centers for the most difficult patients to treat.

In Ohio, for example, the

Cleveland Clinic - perhaps the most recognized hospital in the state

- was ranked No. 1 in the state and the No. 4 hospital overall in the country.
It was also ranked No. 1 nationally for cardiology and heart surgery as well as
urology, according to U.S. News.

The Cleveland Clinic was also the only Ohio hospital to be included on the U.S.
News "Honor Roll" list of hospitals nationally ranked in at least six
specialties.

Although they didn't make the national rankings, Miami Valley and Kettering were
both ranked as "high-performing" hospitals in eight specialties.

Miami Valley's high-performing specialties were cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery;
geriatrics; nephrology; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

Kettering's high-performing specialties were diabetes and endocrinology; ear,
nose and throat; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics;
gynecology; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              46 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Earns More #1 Rankings than Any Other
Hospital in the Nation on U.S. News & World Report's Best Children's Hospital
List

LENGTH: 285  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Ranking number one in six of 10 specialties, The Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) has more #1 rankings than any other children's
hospital in the nation, according to U.S. News & World Report's Best Children's
Hospital survey. CHOP ranked first in Cancer, Diabetes and Endocrinology,
Gastroenterology, Orthopaedics, Pulmonology, Urology; second in Cardiology and
Heart Surgery, Nephrology and Neurology and Neurosurgery, and fourth in
Neonatology.

The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia has again tied for the number one
ranking overall on U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll of Best Children's
Hospitals.

"No matter how many times we achieve the top ranking in this survey, it is
always an exhilarating, inspiring and humbling experience - and a reminder of
our responsibility to constantly improve healthcare for children," said Steven
M. Altschuler, M.D., chief executive officer of The Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia. "I could not be prouder of our employees and the extraordinary
care they provide to our patients every day. I am honored to work alongside
them."

The U.S. News survey methodology combines clinical data points from 178
pediatric centers with a separate reputational score derived from a survey in
which 1,500 pediatric specialists - 150 in each specialty - were asked to which
hospital they would send the sickest children.

For more information about CHOP's rankings please visit:
http://www.chop.edu/about/best-in-the-nation/us-news-world-report.html

The full rankings and methodology are available at
www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals. The rankings will also be published in the
U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, which will be available in August.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tampa General rated best in area

BYLINE: JEFF SCULLIN, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 270 words


All Children's is ranked top hospital for kids

BY JEFF SCULLIN

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Tampa General Hospital is the Tampa Bay area's best hospital, according
to new rankings from U.S. News & World Report.

Next among the 40 hospitals in the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater metro area
were H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Brandon Regional Hospital and Community
Hospital in New Port Richey. All Children's Hospital in St. Petersburg was rated
the top children's hospital.

Tampa General is nationally ranked in six specialties:diabetes and
endocrinology, geriatrics, heart and heart surgery, kidney disorders,
orthopedics and urology, according to the rankings, released last week. Moffitt,
the region's No. 2 hospital, is nationally ranked for cancer treatment.

This is the 21st year U.S. News & World Report has compared the nation's
hospitals but the first time it has evaluated hospitals in metropolitan markets.
The publication ranked hospitals in 52 markets with populations of 1 million or
more.

To be among the 622 metro-area hospitals ranked, hospitals had to fall within
the Top 25 percent in at least one of the 16 specialty areas U.S. News & World
Report considers in its rankings. Hospitals with a national ranking in even one
specialty area rated better than hospitals with high-performing designations in
multiple areas but without any national ranking.

All Children's formally announced Monday its merger with the nation's top-ranked
hospital, Johns Hopkins Medicine.

jscullin@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7305

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday

Hospitals in city top U.S. News rankings;
3 are among the top 10 in the state and 6 among the top 20

BYLINE: Charlie Patton

SECTION: Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 421 words


Jacksonville hospitals fared well in the latest rankings by U.S. News & World
Report, issued last week, with three hospitals in the top 10 in the state and
six among the top 20 of Florida's 271 hospitals.

Baptist Medical Center and Mayo Clinic Jacksonville tied for the top ranking
among Jacksonville hospitals and also tied for fourth place among Florida
hospitals. Each had one nationally ranked speciality and 10 high-performing
specialties.

Baptist Medical Center, including Baptist Medical Center South, with which the
downtown campus shares a license, was nationally ranked in endocrine and
diabetes treatment. The Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville was nationally ranked in
cancer treatment. Only 147 hospitals nationally, out of almost 5,000 surveyed,
achieved national ranking in at least one speciality.

UF Health Jacksonville, which U.S. News lists under its former name, Shands
Jacksonville, was ranked third in the city and ninth in the state. It had 11
high-performing specialities. Memorial Hospital and St. Vincent's Medical Center
Riverside tied for fourth in the city and 15th in the state. Each had six
high-performing specialities. St. Vincent's Southside, which U.S. News listed
under its old name, St. Luke's Hospital, was ranked sixth in the city and 18th
in the state with four high performing specialties. No other Jacksonville-area
hospitals were ranked.

The state's best hospital, according to U.S. News, is Florida Hospital in
Orlando, with eight nationally ranked specialities and four high-performing
specialties. Tampa General Hospital was ranked second in the state, with six
nationally ranked specialties and six high-performing specialities. UF Health
Shands in Gainesville, listed under its old name, Shands at the University of
Florida, was ranked third in the state with five nationally ranked specialties
and seven high-performing specialties.

Eighteen hospitals, none in Florida, made the U.S. News national honor roll by
ranking near the top of at least six of 16 specialties surveyed. The list was
headed by Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and the Cleveland Clinic.

In June it was announced that U.S. News ranked Wolfson Children's Hospital among
the 50 best children's hospitals in five of 10 specialties. Only 87 children's
hospitals made the rankings in at least one category.

The rankings for both children's and adult hospitals can be found at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

Charlie Patton: (904) 359-4413

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Florida Times-Union


                              49 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

747 hosps fly to top

BYLINE: NLVL

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 759 words


THE U.S. News & World Report's 24th annual Best Hospitals rankings showcase 747
of the nation's nearly 5,000 hospitals.

Of those 747, 147 were nationally ranked in at least one of 16 medical
specialties, from cancer to cardiology to urology.

And just 18 - including two Manhattan Hospitals - qualified for a coveted spot
on the national "Honor Roll" by ranking at or near the top in six or more
specialties.

Hospitals that didn't make that cut but were rated in the top 25% for at least
one specialty were eligible for a regional ranking.

Factors used by U.S. News to compile the rankings include survival rates, safety
measures, nurse-to-patient ratios, other data and the subjective reputation of
specialists around the country. A third - or 32.5% - of a hospital's ranking
score is based on reputation.

"Every year, we find new opportunities to improve our analysis of the data
behind the rankings. Last year, for example, we were able to reduce the role of
hospitals' reputation and rely even more heavily than before on objective data
like patient survival rates and nurse staffing levels," said Ben Harder, general
manager of health rankings, U.S. News & World Report.

"This year, for the first time, we were able to identify and separate out cases
in which patients arrived at the hospital with conditions that put them at risk
for getting certain injuries or illnesses during their hospital stay. When we
then evaluated hospitals' performance in patient safety, which accounts for 5%
of each hospital's score toward the rankings, that analytical improvement
enabled us to make sure hospitals weren't unfairly penalized if they treated
more than their share of patients with these so-called 'present on admission'
conditions. The results helped lift some hospitals' rankings this year, in some
cases leading them to score higher in as many as 12 of the 16 medical
specialties."

All the rankings are available at usnews.com/besthospitals.

1 N.Y.-Presbyterian Univ. Hospital of Columbia and Cornell Manhattan 2 NYU
Langone Medical Center Manhattan** 3 Hackensack University Medical Center
Hackensack, N.J. 4 Mount Sinai Medical Center Manhattan 5 St. Francis Hospital
Roslyn, L.I. 6 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Manhattan 7 Montefiore
Medical Center Bronx 8 Morristown Medical Center Morristown, N.J. 9 Hospital for
Special Surgery Manhattan 10 Lenox Hill Hospital Manhattan 11 Long Island Jewish
Medical Center New Hyde Park, L.I. 12 St. Barnabas Hospital Bronx 13 New York
Eye and Ear Infirmary Manhattan 14 Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation West
Orange, N.J. 14 JFK Johnson Rehabilitation Institute Edison, N.J. 16 North Shore
University Hospital Manhasset, L.I. 16 Winthrop-University Hospital Mineola,
L.I. 18 Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital New Brunswick, N.J. 19 St.
Joseph?s Regional Medical Center Paterson, N.J. 19 Westchester Medical Center
Valhalla 21 Holy Name Medical Center Teaneck, N.J. 21 Stony Brook University
Hospital Stony Brook, L.I. 23 Jersey Shore University Medical Center Neptune,
N.J. 23 Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center West Islip, L.I. 25 Overlook
Medical Center Summit, N.J. 25 Huntington Hospital Huntington, L.I. 27 Monmouth
Medical Center Long Branch, N.J. 27 Newark Beth Israel Medical Center Newark 27
Maimonides Medical Center Brooklyn 30 Englewood Hospital and Medical Center
Englewood, N.J. 30 Valley Hospital Ridgewood, N.J. 30 Long Island College
Hospital Brooklyn 30 Northern Westchester Hospital Mount Kisco 30 Beth Israel
Medical Center Manhattan 30 Staten Island University Hospital Staten Island 36
Hunterdon Medical Center Flemington, N.J. 36 Clara Maass Medical Center
Belleville, N.J. 36 St. Michael?s Medical Center Newark 39 UMDNJ University
Hospital Newark 39 Brookdale Hospital Medical Center Brooklyn 39 St.
Luke?s-Roosevelt Hospital Manhattan 42 St. Barnabas Medical Center Livingston,
N.J. 42 St. John?s Riverside Hospital Yonkers 42 Southside Hospital Bay Shore,
L.I. 42 Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center Brooklyn 42 Glen Cove Hospital Glen
Cove, L.I. 42 South Nassau Communities Hospital Oceanside, L.I. 42 John T.
Mather Memorial Hospital Port Jefferson, L.I. 49 Bayshore Community Hospital
Holmdel, N.J. 49 St. Peter?s University Hospital New Brunswick, N.J. 49
University Medical Center of Princeton at Plainsboro Plainsboro, N.J. 49
Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Bronx 49 Jacobi Medical Center Bronx 49 Harlem Hospital
Center Manhattan 49 St. Charles Hospital Port Jefferson, L.I. **NYU Langone
Medical Center Includes data from Hospital for Joint Diseases and Rusk
Rehabilitation

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Daily News, L.P.


                              50 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Journal-World (Lawrence, Kansas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 13, 2007 Friday

KU Hospital ranked nationally: U.S. News and World Report rates cardiac program
No. 30

BYLINE: George Diepenbrock, Journal-World, Lawrence, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words


Jul. 13--Kansas University Hospital is ranked nationally as having the 30th best
heart care and heart surgery program in U.S. News and World Report's "Best
Hospitals" issue, to be released today.

Leaders with the hospital in Kansas City, Kan., on Thursday announced the
ranking and said it was the hospital's first time to make a U.S. News specialty
ranking. They also touted that the hospital revitalized its heart care and heart
surgery program only six years ago.

"We've proven in just a short amount of time we could build a program based on
quality outcomes for patients, develop record-high patient satisfaction, conduct
significant cardiac research and help teach the next generation of physicians,"
Bob Page, KU Hospital's president and CEO, said in a statement.

Page credited the work of physicians, nurses and other staff for helping achieve
a 0.63 risk-adjusted mortality rate in the rankings for Medicare patients from
2003 to 2005. A rate lower than 1.00 means the mortality rate was lower than
expected, and KU Hospital ranked fourth-lowest in that criteria of the top 50
hospitals on the list, said hospital spokesman Dennis McCulloch.

Page and McCulloch said the adjusted mortality rate carried the hospital in the
rankings because of the program's youth, as KU Hospital received no credit in
the rankings' other component -- a national reputation survey.

Hospital leaders also said it achieved the highest-ranked heart program in the
area and the highest U.S. News ranking in specialty areas of any area hospital.

KU Hospital is involved in three-way negotiations with Kansas University Medical
Center and St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas City, Mo., as KUMC and St. Luke's have
discussed establishing an affiliation. KU Hospital has been KUMC's main teaching
hospital and split with the school in 1998.

McCulloch said the parties were still trying to reach an agreement that would be
a "win for everybody."

"We've said for a long time that we have pride in every aspect of our operation,
and we will stack up the quality of this operation to any hospital in the
country," he said.

To see more of the Journal-World, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.ljworld.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, Journal-World, Lawrence, Kan.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070713-LW-0713-KU-Hospital-ranked-nationally

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LW


                          Copyright 2007 Journal-World


                              51 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times (Munster, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 25, 2008 Friday

U.S. News ranks Methodist, Ingalls among top hospitals

BYLINE: Susan Erler, The Times, Munster, Ind.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 335 words


Jul. 25--A U.S. News and World Report lists two local hospitals among America's
best.

Ingalls Memorial Hospital in Harvey and The Methodist Hospitals, with campuses
in Gary and Merrillville, were ranked in the top 50 for excellence in neurology
and neurosurgery in the report, which hit newsstands earlier this month.

U.S. News analyzed data on 5,453 medical centers to produce rankings in 16
specialties, including cancer, heart surgery and kidney disease, as well
neurology and neurosurgery, among others.

Only 170 hospitals were ranked in one or more of the specialties.

Ingalls made the cut for the seventh straight year, ranking 38th for neurology
and neurosurgery this year.

"Our excellence in neurology and neurosurgery truly puts us on par with the very
best hospitals anywhere," Ingalls President and Chief Executive Officer Kurt
Johnson said.

Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., ranked first in the specialty, followed by John
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

University of Chicago, Northwestern Memorial Hospital and Rush University
Medical Center, all in Chicago, also ranked among the top 50 hospitals for
neurology and neurosurgery.

The Methodist Hospitals ranked 45th.

"We are the only hospital in Northwest Indian to have one of its services
recognized nationally," Methodist Hospitals CEO Claude Watts said. Watts
credited the "excellent work of physicians and staff" with earning the ranking.

U.S. News ranked the hospitals based on a combination of reputation, mortality
rate -- hospitals' ability to keep patients alive -- and other factors.

To see more of The Times, Munster, Ind., or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.nwitimes.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Times, Munster, Ind.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080725-MU-HOSPITAL-RANKING-20080725

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MU


                            Copyright 2008 The Times


                              52 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Allegheny General Hospital: Four Allegheny Health Network Hospitals Lauded by
U.S. News for Patient Care Quality, Outcomes

LENGTH: 709  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- AGH Named High Performer in 12 Medical Specialties

* West Penn Hospital Earns Top 50 Designation in Gynaecology, Named High
Performer in 9 Specialties


* Forbes Regional Named High Performer in 6 Specialties

* Saint Vincent Designated High-Performing in 6 Specialties

Pittsburgh, PA Four hospitals affiliated with the Allegheny Health Network have
been lauded in the latest ranking of the country's best hospitals by U.S. News
and World Report. Released online today and slated for publication in August,
the U.S. News 2013-2014 Best Hospitals Guide recognizes Allegheny General
Hospital, Forbes Regional Hospital, Saint Vincent Hospital and West Penn
Hospital as high performing medical centers across multiple clinical
specialties.



"We are excited to once again be acknowledged by U.S. News for the exceptional
level of care that we provide to our patients. As with the many other quality
accolades that our hospitals have earned over the past few years, the U.S. News
distinction reflects an incredibly dedicated and talented team of physicians,
nurses and ancillary staff, the outstanding efforts of whom make the Allegheny
Health Network a premier healthcare provider and an excellent healthcare choice
for the people of this region," said Tony Farah, MD, Allegheny Health Network's
chief medical officer and president of the Allegheny Clinic.

Just 700 of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals earn U.S. News' designation as
a high performing medical center in the 2013-14 report, and fewer than 150
hospitals achieve a national top 50 ranking in at least one of the 16 medical
specialties.

West Penn Hospital received U.S. News' highest honor this year for the quality
of its women's health program, earning a top 50 national designation in
gynecology. West Penn was also named a high performer in cancer, diabetes &
endocrinology, geriatrics, nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery, orthopaedic
surgery, pulmonology and urology.

Allegheny General Hospital is recognized by U.S. News as a top performer in 12
clinical specialties, including orthopaedic surgery, gastroenterology & GI
surgery, cancer, diabetes & endocrinology, cardiology & cardiac surgery, ear,
nose and throat care, geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.

Forbes Regional Hospital in Monroeville is ranked as high-performing in
gastroenterology, geriatrics, neurology & neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.


Saint Vincent Hospital, Erie PA,is designated as a high performer in cardiology
& heart surgery, gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics, nephrology,
neurology & neurosurgery and pulmonology.

U.S. News 2013-14 hospital rankings evaluate performance in 16 medical
specialties. The rankings are based on a combination of objective clinical
information gleaned from Medicare outcomes data and the annual American Hospital
Association Survey - including patient mortality rates, patient safety scores,
nurse-to-patient ratio, procedure volumes and technological capabilities - and a
hospital's reputation score in each category as determined by a random survey of
physicians across the country.

According to Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor, the core mission
of Best Hospitals is to help guide patients who need an especially high level of
care because of a difficult surgery, a challenging condition, or added risk
because of other health problems or age.

The hospital rankings, Comarow said, are like a GPS-type aid to help steer
patients to hospitals with strong skills in the procedures and medical
conditions that present the biggest challenges.



"All of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your
list when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals
send the toughest cases."

Comarow said the regional hospital rankings complement the national rankings by
including hospitals with solid performance nearly at the level of nationally
ranked institutions.

"These hospitals we call 'high performers' are fully capable of giving most
patients first-rate care, even if they have serious conditions or need demanding
procedures," Comarow said.

The complete U.S News hospital rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    December 4, 1993 Saturday Final Edition

Efficiency survey nets area hospitals middle ranking

SOURCE: THE SPECTATOR

BYLINE: By JEFF MAHONEY

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 418 words


IN ONTARIO'S hospital efficiency sweepstakes the Hamilton area is running
somewhere in the middle of the pack -- for what it's worth.

According to a ranking system that some hospital representatives say is
extremely complex and doesn't always truly reflect efficiency or quality of
service, Hamilton's St. Joseph's Hospital placed second in its group of six
Ontario hospitals. That group also includes Chedoke-McMaster Hospitals, which
came in fifth.

The Hamilton Civic Hospitals (the General and the Henderson) came in fifth in
another group, in which 10 hospitals were ranked.

In Halton, Burlington's Joseph Brant Memorial Hospital ranked 16th of 41
hospitals in its group and Oakville-Trafalgar ranked 34th in the same group.

The Ontario hospitals ranked in the report are grouped by number of beds and by
type (teaching hospital, community hospital, trauma centre, etc.).

The efficiency of the hospitals is measured by computing the average cost per
in-patient case, excluding chronic-care patients. The cases are weighted by the
extent of the treatment required, some treatments being far more costly and
time-consuming than others, says Don Scott, chief executive officer of Joseph
Brant Memorial Hospital.

'It's an extremely complex methodological computation,' says Cynthia Janzen,
director of public affairs with Chedoke-McMaster Hospitals.

Mr. Scott says the rankings may be somewhat misleading, because the hospitals
which rank number one in their groups are not necessarily the most efficient.

'Where a hospital would want to be is in the middle of the pack,' says Mr.
Scott.

'If you're at the high end, you're probably not using your resources wisely, but
if you're at the low end (first, second, third in efficiency), you're probably
under-funded. Those hospitals are not necessarily the most efficient -- they're
probably not spending the money because they simply don't have it.'

The ranking system is part of the Ministry of Health's funding reallocation
initiative in which hospital monies could be diverted from less efficient to
more efficient hospitals, says David Jensen, media information officer with the
Ministry of Health in Toronto.

Such reallocations would be based not on the rankings of any one year but on
each hospital's average ranking over the last five years. This year's rankings
are included in a document dealing with 'funding reallocation for fiscal
1994-95.'

No Hamilton-area hospitals are being targeted for funding reallocations, said Ms
Janzen.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              54 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Mostly High Marks For Lgh Leading The List;
Health Care 5Th-Best In Pa., According To Us News High Performing

BYLINE: Heather Stauffer

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 667  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


HEATHER STAUFFER

HSTAUFFER@LNPNEWS.COM

Lancaster General Hospital held on to its position as the fifth-best hospital in
Pennsylvania in the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings released Tuesday.

But it didn't fare as well on nationally ranked specialties. Last year LGH had
four; this year it dropped out of the national rankings on pulmonology. On the
remaining three, it slipped from 18th in the nation to 44th on diabetes and
endocrinology; from 37th to 39th on orthopedics; and from 33rd to 45th on
gastroenterology and GI surgery.

"Lancaster's overall safety score was typical of its peers this year, but had
been better than average last year," said Ben Harder, chief of health analysis
at the publication.

Harder added that a measure on which Lancaster did quite well last year - rate
of post-operative hip fractures - was removed from the ranking's methodology.

"Patients shouldn't make too much of year-to-year changes," he said. "Any
hospital that's among the best in the nation in a particular specialty is pretty
exceptional."

Thomas E. Beeman, president and CEO of LGH parent organization Lancaster General
Health, called the ranking a validation of the hospital's efforts as well as "a
benchmark for us to measure our continued success."

LGH spokeswoman Rosanne Placey also noted that the hospital plans to examine the
ranking's new methodology "to strengthen our ongoing efforts to improve overall
clinical quality and safety."

The annual ranking, now in its 26th year, recognizes hospitals that "excel" in
treating the most difficult cases. This year just 137 hospitals - less than 3
percent of the approximately 5,000 U.S. facilities evaluated - earned a national
ranking in at least one specialty.

U.S. News also awards "high performing" designations for programs that score in
the top 10 percent nationally.

LGH earned the designation on four specialties and three procedures this year:
Geriatrics, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, heart bypass surgery and heart failure.

Also earning a "high performing" designation was the heart failure program at
WellSpan Ephrata Community Hospital. Dr. Mark Jacobson, vice president for
medical affairs there, said partnering with patients on individualized care is
an important factor in that program's success.

Danielle Gilmore, spokeswoman for sister facilities Lancaster Regional Medical
Center and Heart of Lancaster Regional Medical Center, noted that "as smaller
community hospitals," the two "are not large enough to be eligible for regional
or national rankings."

However, she said, the U.S. News ranking indicates that they "continue to meet
expected standards in all surveyed medical services."

Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, just outside Lancaster County, was
ranked seventh in the state, with eight nationally ranked children's specialties
and "high performing" designations for seven adult specialties and two adult
procedures.

"We're pleased with the progress they represent on criteria that include several
patient-safety indicators on which we have seen continued progress since 2013,
which is the most recent year represented by this data," said Dr. Andrew
Resnick, chief quality officer at the center.

U.S. News is just one of many organizations producing reports intended to hold
health care organizations accountable and help consumers make wise choices.
Their source data and methodology differ, and each has strengths and weaknesses.
Industry experts routinely advise consumers to seek out a range of perspectives
when choosing a health care provider instead of relying on any single
assessment.

These are the hospitals U.S. News & World Report ranks the best in Pennsylvania.

 1. Hospitals of the University of Pennsylvania

 2. University of Pittsburgh Medical Center

 3. Lehigh Valley Hospital

 4. Thomas Jefferson University Hospital

 5. Lancaster General Hospital

 6. Lankenau Medical Center

 7. Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center

 8. PinnacleHealth Hospitals

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 29, 2013 Monday

U.S. News & World Report ranks OHSU Hospital No. 1 in Portland, statewide

LENGTH: 435  words

DATELINE: Portland


Oregon Health & Science University has issued the following news release:

Oregon Health & Science University Hospital ranks No. 1 in the Portland metro
area, as well as statewide, according to U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013-14. The
annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.
Related Content

Complete rankings and methodology
"OHSU's health care is recognized nationally because of the dedication of our
faculty and staff, who work collaboratively to deliver excellence, respect and
results to our patients each and every day," said Peter Rapp, OHSU's executive
vice president and executive director of OHSU Healthcare. "Despite high rankings
, OHSU is always committed to new ways to advance medicine and improve our
patients' quality of life."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

This year, five OHSU specialties rank among the nation's top 50:

Cancer (#49)
    Diabetes & Endocrinology (#42)
    Geriatrics (#32)
    Gynecology (#44)
    Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery (Ear, Nose & Throat) (#24)

About 15 percent of all hospitals are recognized for their high performance in
their region and just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty, the news magazine reports.

Additionally, seven of OHSU Hospital's adult specialties were ranked
"high-performing":

Cardiology & Heart Surgery
    Gastroenterology
    Nephrology
    Neurology & Neurosurgery
    Orthopedics
    Pulmonology
    Urology

In addition to adult specialty rankings, U.S. News ranks children's hospitals,
and last month they announced OHSU Doernbecher Children's Hospital ranks among
the nation's top 50 children's hospitals in eight of 10 pediatric specialties
for 2013-14.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

For more information please visit: http://www.ohsu.edu.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Ochsner Among 35 Hospitals in America Nationally Ranked in 8 or More Specialties

LENGTH: 670  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner Medical Center West
Bank Campus  have been ranked among the best hospitals in the country in eight
medical specialties, according to U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best
Hospitals rankings. Only 35 hospitals in the country ranked in eight or more
specialties. The rankings recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients. This is the 13th time since 1996 Ochsner has been
recognized as one of the Best Hospitals in America, and in the past three years,
Ochsner has ranked nationally in seven or more medical specialties.



U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. The rankings
are based on a comprehensive evaluation of hard data, such as patient survival
rates, patient safety data, nurse staffing, patient services and available
technology, in addition to a reputational score based on surveyed physicians.

Fewer than 150 of the country's roughly 5,000 hospitals are nationally ranked in
at least one specialty; Ochsner earned national rankings in eight of the 12
data-driven medical specialties.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in
any specialty."

Ochsner Medical Center (in conjunction with Ochsner Medical Center -- West Bank
Campus) was ranked #1 in Louisiana and #1 in the New Orleans metro area and
Ochsner Medical Center- Kenner was ranked #2 in the New Orleans metro area and
#6 in Louisiana. They also were recognized among the Best Hospitals in
Southeastern Louisiana.

Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner Medical Center -- West Bank Campus are:

Nationally ranked #16 in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

Nationally ranked #21 in Diabetes & Endocrinology

Nationally ranked #24 in Pulmonology

Nationally ranked #24 in Cardiology & Heart Surgery

Nationally ranked #31 in Orthopedics

Nationally ranked #35 in Neurology & Neurosurgery

Nationally ranked #42 in Geriatrics

Nationally ranked #45 in Nephrology

In addition, the Ochsner hospitals received High Performing rankings in several
categories, which means each met a standard of performance nearly as demanding
as that of the national rankings.

Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner Medical Center -- West Bank Campus are:

High performing in Cancer

High performing in Ear, Nose & Throat

High performing in Gynecology

High performing in Urology

Ochsner Medical Center -- Kenner is:

High performing in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

"Ochsner has been consistently named among the best hospitals in America by U.S.
News & World Report," said Warner Thomas, President and Chief Executive Officer
of Ochsner Health System. "This shows how well our Ochsner physicians and our
independent physicians have worked together to build a nationally recognized,
high-quality healthcare organization focused on serving our patients."

"Our top priority has always been to provide the best possible care for our
patients and the community," said Dr. Joseph Bisordi, Chief Medical Officer of
Ochsner Health System. "We have the right people and processes in place which
contributes to our successes, and we continue to strive for improvement."

"The U.S. News rankings set a benchmark for an exceptionally high level of
performance, expertise and specialty care so that our patients experience the
best possible outcomes," said Robert Wolterman, CEO of Ochsner Medical Center.
"Ochsner's national rankings show that we have world class healthcare right here
in New Orleans."

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              58 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday

Decatur hospitals will keep BCBS Tier 1 ranking

BYLINE: Deangelo McDaniel, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 392 words


March 16--Decatur Morgan Hospital will retain its Tier 1 ranking with Blue Cross
and Blue Shield of Alabama, which means patient copays for service will remain
the same as other hospitals in the Decatur area.

In its preliminary standings for 2016, Blue Cross, which is the state's largest
health insurance provider, had downgraded Decatur Morgan and its Parkway campus
on the Beltline from Tier 1 to Tier 2.

"Late last week there was a re-scoring of Decatur Morgan Hospital based on new
information they provided, which allowed them to keep their Tier 1 status," KoKo
Mackin, vice president of communications and community relations for Blue Cross,
said in a written statement.

She did not release details, but said the hospital updated its "cost
information."

Spokeswoman Leigh Hayes said hospital officials were in "serious negotiations"
with Blue Cross after the new rankings came out. She said she didn't know what
additional information was provided "and even if I did I'm not sure I could
share it."

Blue Cross rolled out the three-tier system in 2009 as a way to evaluate
hospitals annually on fiscal awareness, quality, patient safety and patient
experience. Tier 1 is the highest ranking.

The new grading system created new copay amounts for inpatient and outpatient
services, depending on the hospital's tier ranking.

The copay for outpatient surgery at a Tier 1 hospital, for example, is $200,
while the copay is $400 at a Tier 2 or Tier 3 hospital.

When the initial 2016 rankings were released, Decatur Morgan was the only
hospital in Lawrence, Limestone and Morgan counties set to go to Tier 2 status
April 1.

"Hospitals are reviewed routinely, and DMH was able to maintain its Tier I
status by submitting additional information, which was accepted by Blue Cross,"
hospital President Nat Richardson said.

Decatur Morgan became part of Huntsville Hospital System on Sept. 1, 2012. The
facility has 112 acute-care beds, and the campus on the Beltline, which is used
primarily for OBGYN services, is licensed for 120 beds. Hayes said the
facilities have an average combined census of between 130 and 135 patients per
day.

Huntsville Hospital Health System has 18 sites and seven acute-care hospitals.

___ (c)2016 The Decatur Daily (Decatur, Ala.) Visit The Decatur Daily (Decatur,
Ala.) at www.decaturdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160316-DD-Decatur-hospitals-will-keep-BCBS-Tier-1-ranking
-0316-20160316

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2016 The Decatur Daily

                              59 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   July 14, 1995, Friday, Correction Appended
                              CONSTITUTION EDITION

2 Georgia hospitals rated tops in research

BYLINE: Amanda Husted

SECTION: STATE NEWS, Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 198 words


Emory University Hospital and the Medical College of Georgia are among the
nation's top research institutions, U.S. News & World Report said Thursday in
its annual ranking.

Emory was in the top 50 - No. 48 - and MCG was close behind - No. 52 - among the
128 institutions the magazine ranked in its July 18 edition. Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore was rated No. 1 for the fifth year in a row.

The magazine also ranked hospitals by specialities. In cardiology, for instance,
Emory ranked No. 7 - moving up from the No. 9 ranking it attained in 1992-94.

Other research hospitals in the Southeast that made the magazine's overall
excellence list are Duke University in Durham, N.C., No. 47; North Carolina
Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem, No. 56; Shands Teaching Hospital in
Gainesville, Fla., No. 58; St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, No.
61; University of Alabama Hospital in Birmingham, No. 67; University of
Miami-Jackson Memorial Hospital, No. 69; University of North Carolina Hospitals
in Chapel Hill, No. 70; University of Virginia Health Sciences Center in
Charlottesville, No. 72; and Vanderbilt University Hospital and Clinic in
Nashville, No. 73.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 1995

CORRECTION: IN THE ATLANTA CONSTITUTION JULY 14, THE RANKINGS OF EMORY
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL COLLEGE OF GEORGIA IN THE JULY 24 U.S. NEWS &
WORLD REPORT WERE INCORRECT. EMORY'S RANKINGS IN MEDICAL SPECIALTIES WERE
CARDIOLOGY (8), OPTHALMOLOGY (16), UROLOGY (21), AND NEUROLOGY (25); MEDICAL
COLLEGE NEUROLOGY (29), UROLOGY (35), ORTHOPEDICS (38) AND ENDOCRINOLOGY (40).

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution

                              60 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 2, 2017 Wednesday

Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn., Heard on the Street column

BYLINE: Jeff Kiger, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


Aug. 02--When ranking by the numbers, it seems it's important to have the
numbers correct.

U.S. News & World Report magazine ranks U.S. hospitals every year. Mayo Clinic
was named No. 1 in 2016-2017 and it proudly has promoted that fact for a year.

The new 2017-2018 hospital rankings were expected to be released today. However,
the magazine recently announced it's delaying that rollout by a week to check
some numbers.

Here's some comments from the magazine's announcement in mid-July about
postponing the list:

"Last week, three weeks ahead of official publication on usnews.com, we provided
hospitals with an advance preview of the 2017-18 Best Hospitals rankings.
Subsequently, we uncovered a problem in the data analysis that affects the 12
data-driven specialty rankings. As a result, rankings in the 12 data-driven
specialties that hospitals received on a preliminary basis on Tuesday, July 11,
2017, were incorrect.

"These data issues were uncovered before the public release of the new rankings.
To ensure the accuracy of the information we release to the public and, out of
an abundance of caution, we are conducting a comprehensive review of the
rankings and ratings analyses. We are also postponing the public release of the
rankings from Aug. 1 to Aug. 8, 2017."

In last year's rankings, Mayo Clinic took the top spot away from Massachusetts
General Hospital by finishing No. 1 in 8 of the 12 specialties, while also
claiming the top spot for such categories as reputation, mortality index,
patient safety, nurse staffing and magnet status, patient services and
technology.

Massachusetts General finished in third place and Cleveland Clinic snagged No.
2. Johns Hopkins Hospital was No. 4.

Overall, Mayo Clinic received 418 points in U.S. News' scoring system. Cleveland
Clinic had 378 points, Massachusetts General 371 points and Johns Hopkins 349
points.

So now we have to wait a week to see if Mayo Clinic has kept its grasp on the
No. 1 ranking.

Hear something? Share it with Heard on the Street. Call Jeff Kiger at
507-285-7600 or drop a note to jkiger@postbulletin.com

___ (c)2017 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170802-RC-Post-Bulletin-Rochester-Minn-Heard-on-the-Street-column-0802-2017080
2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2017 Post-Bulletin

                              61 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                           February 4, 2016 Thursday

Low-ranking police officers need functional, physical rehabiliation: MP

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm,Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 595  words


"Low-ranking police officers need functional and physical rehabiliation," said
Monufiya MP Samah Gibrael in a statement Thursday, adding that low-ranking
police officers do not act in a propper manner.

Gibrael's statement comes after a number of recent incidents involving low-
ranking police officers involved in violent altercations have been reported in
the news or filmed.Gibrael said she supports the strike of Matariya hospital
staff until the legal action is taken against the low-ranking police officer
responsible for the attack, widely reported in the news, on the hospital staff.A
special committee of MPs, headed by Undersecretary of the House of
Representatives Suleiman Wahdan, held a meeting on Tuesday with the head of the
Doctors' Syndicate, the head of Cairo Doctors' Syndicate and a representative
for the Interior Ministry to discuss the Matariya hospital crisis.A low-ranking
police officer wounded in his face headed to the Matariya Teaching Hospital last
week and asked the doctor examining him to include fake injuries in the medical
report, which he refused, Ahram Online quoted sources in the hospital as
saying.The police officer called some of his colleagues to the hospital and
assaulted the staff before taking two doctors to a police station where they
were reportedly assaulted. They were later released, according to the
source.Undersecretary of the Doctors' Syndicate Mona Mina said Thursday that the
hospital staff would not end their strike until the Doctors' Syndicate's general
assembly on February 12 to decide on escalatory measures regarding the
incident.A low-ranking police officer in Beheira also assauled a nurse at Koam
Hamada Hospital at 4 a.m. on Thursday, after the examination of his son was
delayed.


The low-ranking police officer slapped the nurse, after which she suffered from
a nervous breakdown and entered the intensive care unit, according to the
communication received by Major General Mohamed Emad Eddin Samy, head of Beheira
Security Directorate.Police leaders headed to the hospital in an attempt to
contain the crisis after the nurse's colleagues showed solidarity with
her.According to a security source, the police officer accompanied his sick son
to the hospital at 4 a.m., but there was no doctor to examine him. The nurse
called a doctor who refused to go to the hospital and told the nurse what
medication was needed for the officer's son by phone. The police officer started
filming the hospital, which was empty of doctors, but the nurse attempted to
stop him. A quarrel occured between both, during which the officer slapped the
nurse, the source added.A two-minute video went viral on social media Wednesday,
depicting a low-ranking police officer slap a woman repeatedly on Cairo's metro
system after she refused to allow men entrance into a women-only carriage.The
footage, which was filmed by the privately owned Al-Watan, shows people gathered
around a young veiled woman shouting at several men who were trying to enter the
car. "The metro isn't your own," said one of the men who was trying to enter the
car.The woman took a seat and started to fight with a low-ranking police officer
who, with no clear reason, slapped her, causing the woman to scream repeatedly.
The video shows the police officer grab the woman and push her off the metro car
while she continued to scream.Men are supposed to be prevented from riding on
the two women-only carriages until 9 p.m., when one of them becomes open to both
genders. The cars are intended to give women more privacy and reduce sexual
harassment.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2016 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Moffitt Cancer Center is No. 6 Cancer Hospital in Nation, Based on US News &
World Report

LENGTH: 465  words


Aug. 2 -- Moffitt Cancer Center is No. 6 on U.S. News & World Report's Best
Hospitals for Cancer rankings released today. This is up from No. 18 last year
and makes Moffitt the top ranked cancer hospital in the Southeast and in the
state of Florida. The national Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year,
recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients - those
whose illnesses include underlying conditions, difficult procedures and other
medical issues. Moffitt has been nationally ranked by U.S. News since 1999. Of
the 902 hospitals overall evaluated for cancer care in the United States,
Moffitt's ranking places it in the top 1 percent.

"Moffitt is honored to be acknowledged by U.S. News as the No. 6 cancer hospital
in the nation," said Alan F. List, M.D., president and CEO of Moffitt. "It's
especially poignant that this honor comes as we celebrate the hospital's 30th
anniversary this year."

The Best Hospitals rankings include areas such as patient survival, how often
certain procedures are performed, infection rates, and nurse staffing. Factors
that boosted Moffitt's ranking to No. 6 include its achievement of nurse Magnet
recognition and its continued superior outcomes.

In March 2015, Moffitt earned the prestigious nursing Magnet designation
recognizing our nursing excellence. Serving patients from all 50 states and more
than 100 countries, Moffitt boasts patient outcomes that beat the national
average. Moffitt is one of 47 National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive
Cancer Centers and the only one based in Florida.

Additional accolades include the 2015 Working Mother 100 Best Companies national
list, No. 6 ranking on DiversityInc's 2016 Top 10 Hospitals and Health Systems
list, and the 2016 Leader in LGBT Healthcare Equality.

U.S. News also ranks Moffitt in the top 4% in Urology in the U.S., and high
performing in Gastroenterology and GI Surgery, Colon Cancer Surgery, and Lung
Cancer Surgery.

U.S. News evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals nationwide. For 2016, 153 hospitals
were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628 received a high performing
rating in one or more specialties, procedures or conditions. In rankings by
state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals that were high-performing
across multiple areas of care.

"It gives me a great sense of pride in the accomplishments of the center all of
these years," said hospital founder H. Lee Moffitt. "That our reputation has
grown to the point that we're now recognized as the No. 6 cancer hospital in the
U.S. is just incredible. I'm really proud of the team that has gotten us to this
point."

Best Hospitals was produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a leading
research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.

Source: Moffitt Cancer Center

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Beaumont one of U.S. News & World Report's 'Best Hospitals' for 19th year in a
Row

LENGTH: 532  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak once again ranks among the
nation's  Best Hospitals in the 24th annual rankings by U.S. News & World
Report. It's the 19th consecutive year that Beaumont, Royal Oak has been
nationally ranked by USNWR.



Beaumont, Royal Oak is nationally ranked in seven medical specialties in the
2013-14 lists released today: Cardiology & Heart Surgery - #40

Diabetes & Endocrinology - #44

Gastroenterology & GI Surgery - #48

Geriatrics - #45

Orthopedics - #26

Pulmonology - #44

Urology - #48

Beaumont, Royal Oak earned a "high-performing" ranking in Cancer; Ear, Nose &
Throat; Gynecology; Nephrology (kidney disease); and Neurology & Neurosurgery
and is ranked No. 2 in Michigan and No. 2 in Metro Detroit in the USNWR state
and regional rankings.

Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any of the
medical specialties ranked by U.S News. Only about 15 percent of hospitals are
recognized for their high performance as among their region's best.

Beaumont Hospital, Troy earned a "high-performing" regional ranking in 12
medical specialties (Cancer; Cardiology & Heart Surgery; Diabetes &
Endocrinology; Ear, Nose & Throat; Gastroenterology & GI Surgery; Geriatrics;
Gynecology; Nephrology; Neurology & Neurosurgery; Orthopedics; Pulmonology; and
Urology) and is ranked No. 6 in Michigan and No. 5 in Metro Detroit.

David Wood, M.D., chief

medical officer, Beaumont

Health System

Beaumont Hospital, Grosse Pointe earned a "high-performing" regional ranking in
five medical specialties (Gastroenterology & GI Surgery; Geriatrics; Nephrology;
Neurology & Neurosurgery; and Pulmonology) and is ranked No.15 in Michigan and
No.12 in Metro Detroit.

"Our physicians, nurses, other caregivers, our Board and management team are
strongly focused on providing high quality-high value care to achieve the best
outcomes for patients," says David Wood, M.D., executive vice president and
chief medical officer, Beaumont Health System. "It's gratifying when those
efforts are recognized at the national level by U.S. News and others. But it's
the positive impact we have on the lives of our patients that's most meaningful
to us."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands Aug. 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              July 7, 2006 Friday
                                 DuPage Edition

Edward ranked among best in orthopedics

BYLINE: Jake Griffin, Daily Herald Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 369 words


Edward Hospital officials are basking in the glow of their No. 42 ranking in
orthopedics in the July 17 issue of U.S. News & World Report.

It's the first time the Naperville hospital has made the pre- eminent listing of
the nation's health-care facilities in any of the magazine's 16 categories.

"Only 3 percent of the nation's hospitals are ranked in one or more of these
lists," said Brian Davis, Edward's vice president of marketing.

Edward was the only hospital in DuPage, Will or Kane counties to make the list
in the orthopedics category. Four other medical centers - three in Chicago, plus
Alexian Brothers in Elk Grove Village - also are on the list.

Orthopedics is a medical specialty involving bones and joints.

John Wallin, administrative director of surgery at Edward, said about 25 percent
of all surgeries at the hospital are orthopedic in nature.

"We average about 600 total joint replacement surgeries per year and another 300
neuro-spine procedures," he said.

That's on top of the 3,500 general orthopedic surgeries performed at the
facility.

The national magazine has been ranking the country's hospitals for years using
varying criteria. Most of the data used in decision-making is based on Medicare
figures submitted by hospitals. Usually, larger urban hospitals rank high on the
lists.

"It's more impressive when you consider we are a community hospital," Wallin
said. "University hospitals have a clear-cut edge in these rankings. We really
think we have hit a home run to make it on the list here."

Baltimore's Johns Hopkins Hospital was ranked the best overall this year and
last.

Hospital officials found out about the ranking Wednesday when a magazine
official called for contact information.

"We are very excited about the ranking," said Marcie Heppermann, administrative
director of quality at Edward. "We see this as continued validation of the good
work we're doing here."

Davis said with the number of orthopedic cases the hospital handles annually,
the honor isn't a surprise. However, the hospital's reputation wasn't built on
orthopedic care.

"It's one of several areas we've built our reputation on," he said. "But I think
you'd first look at heart and then cancer (care)."

jgriffin@dailyherald.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: By the numbers Where Chicago area hospitals rated in U.S. News and
World Report's ranking of the top 50 orthopedic hospitals: 6: Rush University
Medical Center, Chicago 20: Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago 21:
University of Chicago Hospitals 42: Edward Hospital, Naperville 46: Alexian
Brothers Medical Center, Elk Grove Village

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              65 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 19, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

The Mount Sinai Medical Center Recognized by U.S. News and World Report in
Annual 'Best Hospitals' Rankings

LENGTH: 237  words


New Delhi, July 19 -- The Mount Sinai Medical Center is prominently featured in
U.S. News & World Report's clinical specialty ranking of the nation's most
outstanding hospitals.



Mount Sinai is nationally ranked as one of the top 25 hospitals in 7 out of 16
specialties and in the top 10 in three of those: Geriatrics (#4),
Gastroenterology (GI) and GI Surgery (#9) and Ear, Nose & Throat (#10). Mount
Sinai was high-performing in Gynecology, Cancer, Urology, Psychiatry,
Orthopaedics, and Pulmonology.

Mount Sinai also ranked among the best hospitals in the New York region.
Covering 94 metro areas in the United States, the regional hospital rankings
complement the national rankings by including hospitals with solid performance
in one or more of the 16 specialties in the Best Hospitals list.

The 2013-2014 edition of "Best Hospitals" can be found online at
www.usnews.com/besthospitals and will be on newsstands Monday, August 26.

This year's Best Hospitals showcases more than 720 of the nation's roughly 5,000
hospitals. In arriving at its rankings for 12 specialties, U.S. News & World
Report evaluated each institution's reputation, mortality index, patient safety
record, discharges, and other care-related factors, including nursing and
technology. The rankings for four specialties, Ophthalmology, Psychiatry,
Rehabilitation, and Rheumatology were based on reputation alone, and reflect a
three-year running average.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday

Area hospital ranked among nation's best

BYLINE: Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 449 words


The Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital has been ranked in three specialties
in U.S. News & World Report's 2012-13 Best Children's Hospitals rankings.

The Hershey-based hospital ranked 34th in orthopedics, 40th in cancer treatment,
and 46th in diabetes and endocrinology, according to a news release. Children's
Hospital ranked in two specialties last year and first made the Best Children's
Hospitals list in 2008.

The rankings feature 50 hospitals in each of 10 pediatric specialties: cancer;
cardiology and heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology;
neonatology; nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology;
and urology, the release continues. Eighty hospitals across the country ranked
in one or more specialties.

"Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital deserves high praise for its
accomplishments," Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow said in the release.
"Penn State Hershey has a reservoir of dedication and expertise that helps the
sickest kids. Our goal at U.S. News is to identify and call attention to
pediatric centers like this one."

For families of sick children, Best Children's Hospitals provides
quality-related information in addition to rankings, including survival rates,
adequacy of nurse staffing and procedure volume, the release states. Since their
2007 debut, the rankings have put an increasing emphasis on data that directly
reflect hospitals' performance over the opinions of physicians.

"We are honored to be recognized for the high quality of care, comprehensive
services, and excellent outcomes that Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital
provides," said Dr. Harold L. Paz, CEO of the Penn State Milton S. Hershey
Medical Center, Penn State's senior vice president for health affairs, and dean
of the Penn State College of Medicine. "Our new freestanding Children's Hospital
, opening later this year, will further enhance our ability to provide
state-of-the-art pediatric care close to home for central Pennsylvania children
and families."

This year, U.S. News surveyed 178 pediatric centers to obtain hard data such as
availability of key resources and ability to prevent complications and
infections, the release states. The hospital survey made up 75 percent of the
rankings. A separate reputational survey in which 1,500 pediatric specialists -
150 in each specialty - were asked where they would send the sickest children in
their specialty made up the remaining 25 percent.

The full rankings and methodology are available at
usnews.com/childrenshospitals. A video of thanks and congratulations to Penn
State Hershey faculty and staff, students, friends and supporters is available
on the Penn State Hershey YouTube channel.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 19, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

The Johns Hopkins University: Back on Top: The Johns Hopkins Hospital Ranked #1
by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 587  words


New Delhi, July 19 -- The Johns Hopkins Hospital has regained the top spot in
U.S. News & World Report's annual rankings of American hospitals, placing first
in five medical specialties and in the top six in 10 others.

Johns Hopkins had, until last year, been ranked #1 for 21 years in a row by the
publication, when Massachusetts General Hospital took top honors. This year's
rankings mark the 22nd time in the publication's 24-year history of surveying
hospitals that Johns Hopkins has held the esteemed position.

In acknowledging their delight in again being named #1, the leadership of Johns
Hopkins Medicine gave credit to the researchers, clinicians, nurses and all of
the hospital's staff and caregivers for the remarkable standing.

"The Johns Hopkins Hospital will always be the hospital ranked #1 for 21 years
in a row thanks to you, the people of Johns Hopkins Medicine," said a joint
letter of congratulations from Paul B. Rothman, M.D., dean of the medical
faculty and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine, and Ronald R. Peterson, president of
The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System and executive vice president of
Johns Hopkins Medicine. "Given the competitive, rapidly changing health care
environment and the realization that U.S. News evaluated more than 4,806
hospitals, we hope you share our incredible pride in achieving this top-tier
ranking among the best hospitals in the United States."

"Our hospital's standings in the specialties ranked by U.S. News reflect the
strong performance and historic leadership of our institution," Rothman adds,
noting that of the 16 specialties ranked by the publication, 15 at Johns Hopkins
were ranked among the top six in the nation.

In addition to landing in the #1 spot on U.S. News' Honor Roll of best
hospitals, the hospital ranked #1 in Ear, Nose & Throat, Geriatrics, Neurology &
Neurosurgery, Rheumatology, and Urology; #2 in Psychiatry; #3 in
Gastroenterology & GI Surgery (digestive diseases) and Ophthalmology; #4 in
Cancer, Cardiology & Heart Surgery, Diabetes & Endocrinology, and Nephrology
(kidney disorders); #5 in Gynecology; and #6 in Orthopedics and Pulmonology
(respiratory diseases).

"It is a privilege to be in the company of all the excellent hospitals
recognized in the magazine," says Peterson. "Kudos are owed to all our
colleagues on the honor list for their national rankings."

A detailed list of the rankings and information about how they are put together
are available at www.hopkinsmedicine.org/usnews and at
www.usnews.com/besthospitals.

In May, the magazine also recognized the Johns Hopkins Children's Center as
among the United States' top children's hospitals, ranking it in the top 10
Honor Roll of children's hospitals that excelled in 10 pediatric specialty
rankings. Hopkins Children's earned a spot in the top 10 for five specialties,
including #6 in Neurology & Neurosurgery; #7 in Diabetes & Endocrinology and
Urology; #9 in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery and Pulmonology.

Included in the state and regional analysis from U.S. News' 2013 adult rankings,
The Johns Hopkins Hospital ranked #1 in all specialties in Maryland and #1 in
all specialties in Baltimore. Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, Howard
County General Hospital, Sibley Memorial Hospital and Suburban Hospital were
also recognized as achieving high performance in their respective regions in a
number of specialties. To be included in the metro-area report, a hospital had
to score in the top 25 percent among its peers in at least one medical
specialty.

Continent only.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 14, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Mount Sinai Medical Center: The Kravis Children's Hospital at Mount Sinai
Increases Number of Specialties Ranked in U.S. News and World Report 'Best
Children's Hospitals'

LENGTH: 532  words


New Delhi, June 14 -- The Kravis Children's Hospital at Mount Sinai is among the
country's best children's hospitals in 7 of 10 pediatric specialties measured by
U.S. News & World Report for its 2013-14 "Best Children's Hospitals" ranking.



"Mount Sinai is making great strides as one of the nation's leaders in providing
quality health care to pediatric patients across all specialty areas," said
Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai
Medical Center. "Under the leadership of Dr. Lisa Satlin, Kravis Children's
Hospital is ranked in gastroenterology & GI surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
nephrology, urology, cancer and was for the first time ranked in cardiology and
heart surgery. Accomplishments such as these are what propel us forward in
improving our patient care and outcomes."

"Our superb multi-disciplinary teams work to tailor treatments to the needs of
the children and adolescents we care for at Kravis Children's Hospital," said
David Reich, MD, Interim President and Chief Operating Officer, The Mount Sinai
Hospital. "We offer the highest quality care in terms of nursing, surgery and
medicine, and our staff works seamlessly to give our patients the future they
deserve."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families find the best medical care available. The rankings, which will be
published in U.S. News's Best Hospitals 2013-14 guidebook, offer an exclusive
look at quality-related information at the individual hospital level. The
rankings recognize the top 50 children's hospitals in the 10 specialty areas of
cancer, cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology, gastroenterology &
GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics,
pulmonology, and urology.

"We continue to recruit world renowned experts to our medical and surgical teams
that only enhance the quality of our care," adds Dennis Charney, MD, the Anne
and Joel Ehrenkranz Dean, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and Executive
Vice President for Academic Affairs, The Mount Sinai Medical Center.

"The Kravis Children's Hospital will keep building on our long and distinguished
tradition of excellence in innovative patient care, community involvement,
education, and research," said Lisa Satlin, MD, Professor & Chair of the
Department of Pediatrics. "Our mission is to improve the overall health of
children in our community and beyond, and we are proud to be commended by our
peers."

Reputational rankings by peers account for 25 percent of each hospital's
rankings. Three-quarters of each hospital's score was determined through an
analysis of patient outcomes and data on the structural resources each hospital
has for pediatric care. To gather data, U.S. News used two surveys: a clinical
questionnaire sent to 179 pediatric hospitals and, for the reputational
assessment, a survey of 150 pediatric specialists and subspecialists in each
specialty. The 1,500 physicians were asked where they would send the sickest
children in their specialty, setting aside location and expense.

For the full rankings and methodology, visit http://health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals/pediatric-rankings.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 998 DOCUMENTS


              The Times and Democrat (Orangeburg, South Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

MUSC gets top ranking

BYLINE: The Times and Democrat, Orangeburg, S.C.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 560 words


Aug. 09--CHARLESTON -- MUSC Health was named by U.S. News and World Report for
the third year in a row as the number one hospital in South Carolina, and one of
the country's top 50 hospitals in the treatment of ear, nose and
throatdisorders, gynecology, urology and cancer.

MUSC was also high-performing in gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics,
nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and
rheumatology.

"What does it mean to be ranked the number one hospital in South Carolina three
years in a row? I'd say that above all, it's a reflection of our overall
commitment to putting patients and their families first, advancing innovation in
how we deliver care, and striving to make our communities healthier in ways that
go beyond the hospital setting," said Patrick J. Cawley, M.D., MUSC Health CEO
and MUSC Vice President of Health Affairs. "There are lots of ranking systems
out there, but this particular designation means more than reputation; these
rankings reflect strong patient outcomes, excellence in teaching the next
generation of care providers, new innovations that improve health, and strong
health care leadership."

U.S. News & World Report unveiled the 28th edition of the Best Hospitals
rankings at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals. Designed to help patients
with life-threatening or rare conditions identify hospitals that excel in
treating the most difficult cases, Best Hospitals 2017-18 includes
consumer-friendly data and information on 4,500 medical centers nationwide in 25
specialties, procedures and conditions. In the 16 specialty areas, 152 hospitals
were ranked in at least one specialty. In rankings by state and metro area, U.S.
News recognized hospitals as high performing across multiple areas of care.

Texas firm bringing 150 jobs

GREENVILLE -- A Texas real estate services provider plans to add 150 jobs in
South Carolina.

The Greenville News reported that RealPage plans to add the jobs at its
customers-contact center in Greenville next year.

RealPage offers business-to-business and business-to-customer services for the
rental housing market, from senior living centers to student apartments.

Company vice president Randy Johns said the business has 350 employees in
Greenville now. The employees answer phone calls, emails or instant messages 24
hours a day from renters or potential renters about available properties or
maintenance on properties owned by RealPage's customers.

Fiber Industries opening in Darlington

COLUMBIA -- Fiber Industries LLC is preparing to open a new textile production
operation in Darlington County. Expected to be operational in early 2018, this
development is projected to bring more than $30 million of capital investment
and lead to the creation of at least 135 new jobs.

A privately held company, Fiber Industries was established by MHR Fund
Management LLC, a New York-based investment firm, in order to restart the
Palmetto Plant in Darlington.

The management team, Andrew Rosenfeld and Leandro Carboni, has more than 60
years of combined experience in working at senior-level positions in the
chemical, oil and gas industries, along with strong backgrounds in financial,
commercial and plant operations.

___ (c)2017 The Times and Democrat (Orangeburg, S.C.) Visit The Times and
Democrat (Orangeburg, S.C.) at thetandd.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170809-GG-MUSC-gets-top-ranking-0809-20170809

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GG


                     Copyright 2017 The Times and Democrat

                              70 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday

Ranking of top hospitals no cure for health woes;
Experts say annual effort to single out best facilities, while well intentioned,
is making overcrowding worse

BYLINE: Alice Yan

SECTION: NEWS; Yangtze Briefing; Pg. 05

LENGTH: 709 words


Shanghai's Fudan University has released a list of the mainland's top 100
hospitals, but instead of encouraging hospitals to do better, it has been
criticised for encouraging patients to go to the already overcrowded elite
institutions.

Thanks to the extremely unbalanced distribution of medical resources on the
mainland, 25 of the top 100 are in Beijing, 19 are in Shanghai and 10 are in
Guangdong.

All the hospitals listed in the "Top 100 Comprehensive Hospital Ranking"
released by Fudan's Hospital Management Institute on Sunday are
government-funded.

The Fudan institute is one of the few compiling such rankings on the mainland.
Gao Jiechun , who is in charge of the project, said it allowed top hospitals to
know their exact position in comparison with other Class-A hospitals and gave
the public a guide to the best hospitals and specialist departments, the Jiefang
Daily reported.

The rankings garnered plenty of coverage in the media, leading microbloggers to
say they would save the list and use it as a reference if they ever needed to go
to hospital.

Despite its good intentions, analysts said the Fudan ranking had actually
backfired.

Bao Yong , a public health professor from Shanghai Jiao Tong University, said
the recent hospital rankings would help direct more people into those already
crowded facilities, which ran counter to the goal of health reform. The
authorities want the bulk of patients, especially those with chronic diseases,
to attend class-B or class-C hospitals, with class-A ones left to deal with rare
or difficult medical problems.

It's a big headache for the health sector because class-A hospitals, which have
more than 500 beds and are also engaged in higher education and medical
research, are too crowded. Beds for patients often overflow into the corridors.

The China Health Yearbook 2011 said the bed usage rate in class-A hospitals was
102.9 per cent, compared with 87 per cent in class-B hospitals, which have 101
to 500 beds and serve several communities.

Meanwhile, 56 per cent of the beds were used in class-C, or community, hospitals
with less than 100 beds.

Bao said strengthening grass-roots health centres was important because there
was a growing number of cases of chronic disease as society ages.

"Perhaps the top 100 big hospitals list should be scrapped; instead it's a good
idea to have a list of community hospitals offering the best service, with
patients' assessments taken into consideration," Bao said.

Public health experts warned years ago that some Beijing residents were queuing
up for several hours at Peking Union Medical College Hospital just to seek
treatment for a cold.

The excessive flow of patients has increased workloads for doctors and nurses,
forcing them to spend little time listening to or caring for each patient.

As a result, members of the public have been complaining about hasty diagnoses
by arrogant doctors, increasing the risk of medical accidents and conflicts
between hospitals and patients.

However, the government's push to divert patients to grass-roots or community
hospitals has made little progress because the public still lacks confidence in
them due to insufficient funding and staffing.

The way the list was compiled also drew criticism. One criterion, the number of
research papers published in top international journals, would steer hospitals
away from treating patients but result in more support from the government and
better promotion prospects for doctors.

Fudan University also released another ranking of 28 main hospital departments,
listing the top 10 in each category.

Researchers compiling the lists said they were based on assessments by more than
1,300 senior doctors across the country who specialised in various fields, as
well as the quantity and influence of research papers. The opinions of patients
were not a factor.

That probably explains why three hospitals with strong records of scientific
research have been ranked in the top three for the three years that the rankings
have come out. They are Beijing's Peking Union Medical College Hospital,
Chengdu's West China Hospital and the Chinese PLA General Hospital in Beijing,
also known as the 301 Hospital.

46

Number of hospitals in Fudan University's top 100 not in Beijing, Shanghai or
Guangdong

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Dominion Post (Morgantown, West Virginia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            March 11, 2015 Wednesday

WVU Law School falls 10 places on report amid changes to rankings

BYLINE: Andrew Hesner, The Dominion Post, Morgantown, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words


March 11--U.S. News and World Report's rankings WVU's College of Law during the
past few years, have been a roller-coaster ride -- recently ranking No. 94 in
the country out of 149 schools that placed -- up from No. 84 this past year, No.
91 in 2013 and 101 in 2012.

But the law school rankings, released Tuesday, were determined a bit differently
compared with past years.

John Morse, chief data strategist for the publication, said "law schools with
large percentages of graduates who hold jobs funded by the law school or
university typically will rank lower than they would have if those jobs had been
at law firms or in government."

Joyce McConnell, current WVU provost who was law school dean during the ranking
calculations, said the results are only one ranking different from this past
year's results.

"The School of Law is an excellent school," she said Tuesday. "We can always
anticipate a shift."

Some of the other results from the 2016 rankings show WVU improved as a top
public school -- from 94th in the 2015 report to 93rd, out of 117 institutions.

The Benjamin M. Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources is the
107th best engineering school in the country out of 184 institutions that were
ranked. This is up from 109th.

The College of Education and Human Services improved from 106th to 104th, out of
184 institutions ranked. The school was ranked 112th in 2013.

WVU was ranked the same in National Universities category, at 168th. The rank is
based on the 201 institutions.

The university's online business program fell from 23rd to 25th place. The
number was based on 142 ranked institutions.

The publication uses test scores, peer reviews and research funding to determine
the rankings.

WVU Hospitals

West Virginia University Hospitals (WVUH) ranked No. 1 in the category of state
hospitals. Charleston Area Medical Center placed second. The ranking was based
on three ranked hospitals.

WVUH was ranked high-performing in the following adult specialties: Cancer,
cardiology and heart surgery, and diabetes & endocrinology, among many others.

Seventy-seven percent of patients surveyed said they would recommend the
hospital to family and friends; it received an average overall rating, with 8
percent of patients survey saying it was low-quality.

Seventy-two percent said it was highest or of very high quality.

___ (c)2015 The Dominion Post (Morgantown, W.Va.) Visit The Dominion Post
(Morgantown, W.Va.) at www.dominionpost.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150311-MV-WVU-Law-School-falls-10-places-on-report-amid-changes-to-
rankings-0311-20150311

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MV


                        Copyright 2015 The Dominion Post

                              72 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Eagle (Bryan, Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday

Online rankings raise profiles of area hospitals

BYLINE: Shauna Lewis, The Eagle, Bryan, Texas

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 712 words


Oct. 27--More and more people are researching their health care options online,
local hospital officials said, and they believe that is bringing a boost to the
local economy by luring patients from out of the area.

HealthGrades, an independent source of hospital quality ratings, recently
released its 2012 rankings, naming St. Joseph Regional Health Center in Bryan as
No. 1 in Texas in overall orthopedic services for the second consecutive year
and the Physicians Centre Hospital, also in Bryan, as No. 8 in the state for
joint replacement.

Local hospitals and HealthGrades evaluators said such rankings are important
because of an increase in the number of people who research health care options
online.

"Consumers have choices and should do their research before checking into a
hospital," St. Joseph spokeswoman Ashlea Sigman said. "Locals should feel good
knowing a hospital rated five-star in many procedures is available in their
neighborhood."

HealthGrades, the leading company for health care information, is finding an
increasing number of people nationwide are searching online for health care,
said Katherine Henschen, HealthGrades's client executive for professional
services.

From January to July, 128,974 people in the Waco designated market area, which
includes Bryan and College Station, evaluated health care on the company's
website, she said. She didn't have statistics for previous years.

Rankings

HealthGrades ranks all hospitals in the United States that report to the Center
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), basically all non-federal hospitals,
Henschen said.

It did a statistical analysis of patient data from each hospital from the 2008
to 2010 federal fiscal years for the 2012 rankings, she said.

HealthGrades also ranked St. Joseph among America's top 100 best hospitals in
the categories of overall orthopedic services, joint replacement and spine
surgery, and in the top 10 percent in the nation for treatment of stroke. It
awarded The Physicians Centre with a Joint Replacement Excellence Award.

The company does not rank hospitals numerically nationwide, but ranks the Top 10
for specific categories in each state. St. Joseph and Physicians Centre were the
only hospitals in Bryan and College Station to be ranked in any Top 10 lists,
Henschen said.

The company also ranks hospitals with one to five stars in different categories,
with five stars being the highest ranking. St. Joseph, Physicians Centre and
College Station Medical Center each had at least one five-star rating.

Hospitals are ranked for free, but pay for the right to market HealthGrades
rankings, Henschen said. She declined to say what the cost was. She said the
company's mission was to "provide transparency."

Researching online

College Station Medical Center spokesman Joe Brown said he believes more people
are being "choosy" with their health care options, likely because of the
Internet's accessibility, and people want to see what they're getting for the
cost and what the track records are for hospitals and doctors.

"I think that people are smart consumers of health care and nowadays people will
go to greater lengths to investigate," Brown said about researching online.

That's good for business, he said, and why hospital officials pay close
attention to online ratings such as those from Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS). He also encouraged consumers to use
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' site,
www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov.

Brown and Sigman said their hospitals are getting an increasing number of
patients from Houston, Austin, Dallas and Fort Worth, and they believed people
looking online contribute to that. Besides spending money at the hospitals, that
means friends and family members staying at hotels and eating and shopping
locally, they said.

Sigman said 15 percent of St. Joseph's joint replacement patients, on average
over the past three years, come from out of town each year, bringing $1.6
million to the hospital. Brown said dozens from outside the area come to The Med
each month.

On the Web

www.healthgrades.com/

www.hcahpsonline.org

www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov/

___ (c)2011 The Eagle (Bryan, Texas) Visit The Eagle (Bryan, Texas) at
www.theeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111027-EG-Online-rankings-raise-profiles-of-area-hospitals
-1027-20111027

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EG


                            Copyright 2011 The Eagle

                              73 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             April 2, 2005 Saturday
                    Flagler/palm Coast News-tribune Edition

High-Ranking Hospital Florida Hospital Flagler makes top 100

BYLINE: AARON LONDON - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION B; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 304  words

DATELINE: PALM COAST


PALM COAST Florida Hospital Flagler has ranked as one of the nation's best
hospitals, according to a healthcare business information company. The hospital
was recently named one of the nation's Top 100 hospitals by Solucient in its
latest National Benchmarks for Success study. The study ranks hospitals of
similar size in four performance areas: quality of care, efficiency, financial
performance and growing community service.

Hospital officials were pleased with the study results. "This is the first time
we've made the Solucient Top 100," said Eric Stevens, vice president for
operations at the Flagler County facility. "It's a big deal. Solucient is one of
the largest and most prestigious benchmarking companies looking at hospitals."
Under the category of small community hospitals, Florida Hospital Flagler
outperformed facilities of similar size on several measures. The hospital's
average length of stay was 3.63 days, 11 percent shorter than at other benchmark
hospitals. The hospital's percentage of community served increased over the
study period compared with a slight drop for similar sized facilities. Stevens
said the ranking is a validation of the hospital's effort to provide quality
care for the community. "We put a great deal of emphasis on creating a high-
quality facility," he said. "It compares very favorably with similar hospitals
across the country." Stevens said the high ranking also gives the Flagler
facility a glimpse at how it compares with other hospitals. "The road we've
chosen to take has started to show successful returns," he said. Stevens said
the hospital will have a plaque to hang in the front lobby and will put up a
banner announcing the ranking, but for the most part any celebrating will be
done internally with employees. "This ranking is a product of their work," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Florida Hospital Flagler was recently named one of the nations
top 100 hospitals by Solucient in a recent study. The study ranked hospitals of
similar size in the categories of quality of care, efficiency, financial
performance and growing community service.News-Tribune file/ BRIAN MYRICK

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2005 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2005 News-Journal Corporation

                              74 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Scott & White Hospital Temple Named a Best Regional Hospital by U.S. News &
World Report

LENGTH: 495  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- CENTRAL TEXAS For the third year in a row, Scott & White
Hospital - Temple has been named among the nation's Best Regional Hospitals
2013-14, according to U.S. News & World Report, publisher of Best Hospitals.
U.S. News publishes the Best Hospitals rankings annually in July. In 2011, U.S.
News began formally recognizing hospitals outside major metropolitan areas,
including Scott & White Hospital -Temple, as Best Regional Hospitals. The latest
rankings identify more than 200 such hospitals outside metropolitan areas of one
million or more.  Scott & White was recognized for the Prairies and Lakes region
in Texas, which encompasses more than 44,000 square miles.*

Scott & White Hospital -- Temple was recognized again for its outstanding
performance in six specialties: Orthopedics, Gastroenterology and
Gastroenterology Surgery, Nephrology, Psychiatry, Pulmonology, and Urology.



"Being recognized again is something all of us take great pride in because it
reflects the tremendous amount of work by all of our staff at Scott & White
Hospital - Temple," said Robert W. Pryor, MD, MBA, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Scott & White Healthcare."  To be listed with some of the country's
premier medical institutions is very humbling."

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in
any specialty."

U.S. News annually evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals in 16 medical specialties.
Data stands behind its analysis in most specialties, death rates, patient
safety, and procedure volume. Physicians' responses to a national survey, in
which specialists are asked to name hospitals they consider best in their
specialty for the toughest cases, also are factored in.  The complete rankings
and methodology are available at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

*The following counties comprise the Prairies and Lakes Region in Texas:
Anderson, Austin, Bastrop, Bell, Bosque, Brazos, Burleson, Caldwell, Collin,
Colorado, Comanche, Cooke, Coryell, Dallas, Delta, Denton, DeWitt, Ellis, Erath,
Falls, Fannin, Fayette, Freestone, Gonzales, Grayson, Guadalupe, Hamilton,
Henderson, Hill, Hood, Hopkins, Hunt, Johnson, Kaufman, Lamar, Lavaca, Lee,
Leon, Limestone, Madison, McLennan, Milam, Montague, Navarro, Parker, Rains, Red
River, Robertson, Rockwall, Somervell, Tarrant, Van Zandt, Washington, Wise.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                              July 11, 2008 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

For Sarasota Memorial, rankings pose challenge

BYLINE: By DAVID GULLIVER david.gulliver@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 443 words


For the fifth straight year, Sarasota Memorial Hospital made the best-known list
of the country's top hospitals. But it may struggle to make it six in a row.

In U.S. News & World Report magazine's 2008 rankings, the hospital ranks 43rd
for geriatric care.

The magazine uses mortality data, a checklist of hospital services and a
reputation survey to analyze and rank the top 50 hospitals in 16 categories of
care.

U.S. News examined 5,453 hospitals. Of them, only 170 made one or more lists.

Sarasota Memorial officials cheered the news while noting the challenges a small
hospital faces in making the cut.

"Although we don't have the high visibility of some of our peers, our doctors,
nurses, researchers and staff have demonstrated that we provide the same caliber
of care you'd find in the nation's best academic medical centers," Sarasota
Memorial President Gwen MacKenzie said in a prepared statement.

The geriatrics ranking is noteworthy, MacKenzie said, because it involves
several specialties and is among the most complex areas of medicine.

The hospital's geriatrics ranking moved up five positions from 2007, but it
dropped off the list for cancer care, where it placed 45th last year.

This year's results represent a steep drop from 2005, when Sarasota Memorial was
ranked among the top 50 in seven areas of care.

Hospital officials had no comment on the year-to-year changes but suggested that
the hospital suffers from not being a nationally known name like Johns Hopkins
Hospital -- which topped the magazine's honor roll.

In 2007, Sarasota Memorial had one of the best mortality rates of any hospital
in the magazine's cancer care rankings.

But it also was one of only nine hospitals that scored no points for national
reputation, dropping its ranking.

This year, only two hospitals made the list without reputation points. Sarasota
Memorial's latest cancer mortality rate was not immediately available.

The reputation study has drawn fire for most of the study's 18-year run. But for
the first time, the list's critics will be able to test its findings.

Project editor Avery Comarow said the magazine will give out data on all
1,000-plus hospitals that qualified for the study.

In partial results posted briefly on the Web site Thursday, several Florida
hospitals made strong showings.

Shands, the teaching hospital at University of Florida, made the top 50 in 11
categories, including cancer care, neurology and neurosurgery and endocrinology.

Tampa General Hospital placed on seven lists, including orthopedics,
endocrinology and gynecology.

Jackson Memorial Hospital, at University of Miami, placed in four categories
including geriatrics and ophthalmology.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 HERALD-TRIBUNE ARCHIVE Sarasota Memorial ranked 43rd in the geriatric care
category of U.S. News & World Report's 2008 list of top hospitals. Officials at
the hospital say lacking a well-known name hurts its success in the rankings.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday
                                 4Star Edition

Johns Hopkins Hospital is up

BYLINE: Andrea K. McDaniels

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 369  words


1

Johns Hopkins Hospital moved up to third from fourth in the latest rankings of
American hospitals by U.S. News and World Report, but fell short of reclaiming
the top spot it once held for 22 years.

The Mayo Clinic in Minnesota took the coveted No. 1 ranking in the assessment of
hospitals released today, while the Cleveland Clinic ranked second. The U.S.
News rankings compared more than 4,500 medical centers in 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions.

U.S. News also ranked hospitals by each state, and Hopkins came in first in the
comparison of Maryland hospitals. The University of Maryland Medical Center was
ranked the state's second-best hospital.

Hopkins started slipping in the national rankings in 2012 when the magazine
changed its methodology to put less emphasis on reputation. It has also begun
analyzing more outcomes of common procedures than it once did.

While Hopkins would relish being No. 1 again, Dr. Redonda Miller, the hospital's
president, said, this year's showing left it in good company. "We are thrilled
to be among such an illustrious group of hospitals in the top 10," Miller said.

The report reviewed the performance of hospitals in areas from complex,
high-risk cancer care to common procedures such as knee replacement surgery,
said Ben Harder, chief of health analysis at U.S. News & World Report.

The data is meant to help patients make informed decisions about where they seek
care, he said.

Hopkins also ranked among the top three hospitals nationwide in five
specialties: gastroenterology, neurology and neurosurgery, ophthalmology,
rheumatology, and ear, nose and throat. It also was dubbed an "honor roll"
hospital, or one of 20 institutions that U.S. News said delivered exceptional
treatment across multiple areas.

While some rankings can be important, Miller said that it's what Hopkins'
patients think that matters the most. "No single ranking really perfectly
reflects the excellence of a hospital," she said.

Karen Lancaster, a spokeswoman for the University of Maryland Medical Center,
said, "We recognize how fortunate the people of this region are to have two
strong research-focused academic medical centers to go to for care."

amcdaniels@baltsun.com

twitter.com/anwalker

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 17, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Ochsner Among 25 Hospitals in America Nationally Ranked in 11 Or More
Specialties Accd'ing to U.S. News

LENGTH: 669  words


New Delhi, July 17 -- Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner Medical Center - West
Bank Campus are among only 25 hospitals in the country to rank in the top 50 in
11 or more medical specialties, according to U.S. News & World Report's 2012-13
Best Hospitals rankings. This puts Ochsner in such esteemed company as Johns
Hopkins Hospital, Massachusetts General, Mayo Clinic and Cleveland Clinic. This
is the 12th time since 1996 Ochsner has been recognized as one of the Best
Hospitals in America.

Fewer than 150 of the country's roughly 5,000 hospitals are nationally ranked;
Ochsner earned national rankings in 11 of the 12 data-driven medical
specialties. The rankings are based on a comprehensive evaluation of hard data,
such as patient survival rates, patient safety data, nurse staffing, patient
services and available technology, in addition to a reputational score based on
surveyed physicians.

The hospital rankings, said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow, are
like a GPS-type aid to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in
the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges. "All
of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

Ochsner Medical Center (in conjunction with Ochsner Medical Center - West Bank
Campus) was ranked #1 in Louisiana and in the New Orleans metro area and Ochsner
Medical Center- Kenner was ranked #2 in the New Orleans metro area and #4 in
Louisiana. They also were recognized among the Best Hospitals in Southeastern
Louisiana. In addition, Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner's West Bank Campus
were named 'high performing' in Cancer and Ochsner Medical Center - Kenner in
Gastroenterology, which means each met a standard of performance nearly as
demanding as that of the national rankings.

Ochsner is:

* Nationally Ranked # 10 in Diabetes and Endocrinology

* Nationally Ranked # 10 in Gastroenterology

* Nationally Ranked # 14 in Pulmonology

* Nationally Ranked # 20 in Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* Nationally Ranked # 21 in Ear, Nose & Throat

* Nationally Ranked # 22 in Gynecology

* Nationally Ranked # 22 in Orthopedics

* Nationally Ranked # 28 in Geriatrics

* Nationally Ranked # 32 in Urology

* Nationally Ranked # 37 in Nephrology

* Nationally Ranked # 44 in Neurology & Neurosurgery

"The U.S. News rankings are especially meaningful because they underscore
Ochsner's demonstrated expertise and competence in delivering high-quality
patient care across numerous complex clinical specialties," said Warner Thomas,
President and Chief Operating Officer of Ochsner Health System. "These rankings
are the most comprehensive national evaluation of hospitals and their clinical
programs completed by any third party independent organization."

"Rankings such as these are extremely helpful in enabling patients to find the
best," said Dr. Joseph Bisordi, Chief Medical Officer of Ochsner Health System.
"No matter where you are or what your condition, Ochsner has the capability
within our system to provide you with the most sophisticated specialty care."

"While we are always focused on opportunities to improve, we are very proud that
our relentless focus on quality throughout the system has led to continued and
consistent advancements in our patients' outcomes, which is reflected in the
U.S. News rankings," said Michael Hulefeld, CEO of Ochsner Medical Center. "I am
thankful to our physicians, nurses, technicians and all of our colleagues who
work to bring world-class healthcare to the Gulf South and I look forward to our
continued improvement."

The rankings were published by U.S. News in collaboration with RTI
International, a research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.
Highlights of the 2012-13 rankings will appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals
2013 guidebook, to go on sale in August.

The complete rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday

Johns Hopkins regains top ranking from US News;
Johns Hopkins regains No. 1 position in US News & World Report hospital rankings

SECTION: A; Pg.4

LENGTH: 186  words


BALTIMORE (AP) - Johns Hopkins Hospital has regained its place atop U.S. News &
World Report's annual rankings of the nation's best hospitals, one year after
its 21-year stint at the top of the rakings was broken.

Last year, Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston won the top spot.
Massachusetts General was ranked second in the 2013 rankings, which were
released Tuesday.

Eighteen hospitals made the magazine's Honor Roll of the best hospitals in the
country. To make the list, hospitals had to achieve a high ranking in at least
six of 16 medical specialties.

Johns Hopkins was ranked No. 1 in ear, nose and throat; geriatrics; neurology
and neurosurgery; rheumatology; and urology. It also received top-six rankings
in 10 other specialties, including cancer, cardiology and psychiatry.

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., was ranked third, followed by the Cleveland
Clinic and UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles.

Johns Hopkins said in a statement that it was proud of the achievement,
particularly given "the competitive, rapidly changing health care environment"
and that U.S. News evaluated more than 4,800 hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday

Tier ranking could double co-pays at Decatur Morgan Hospital

BYLINE: Deangelo McDaniel, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 409 words


March 06--Decatur Morgan Hospital officials are fighting to hold on to a Blue
Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama ranking that would save patients hundreds of
dollars in co-payments.

BCBS, which is the state's largest health insurance provider, downgraded the
hospital from Tier 1 to Tier 2. This means most co-pays for most services will
double.

Decatur Morgan's status will change April 1, unless leaders can convince the
insurance provider to keep the hospital at Tier 1.

"We're in negotiations," hospital spokeswoman Leigh Hayes said. "Right now, I
just can't say anything beyond that."

Hayes said if Decatur Morgan moves to Tier 2, the hospital will notify the
community of how the change affects it.

KoKo Mackin, vice president of communications and community relations for BCBS,
said she could not comment on the 2016 tier results because they are
communicating them to affected hospitals.

"I will be happy to respond to your questions in mid to late March," she wrote
in an email.

BCBS rolled out the three-tier system in 2009, and in an interview with The
Decatur Daily at the time, Mackin said the objective was better patient care and
a financial safety system that includes reimbursement amounts.

The new grading system required hospitals to agree to lower reimbursement rates
for patient service. It also created new co-pay amounts for inpatient and
outpatient services, depending on the hospital's tier ranking.

The co-pay for outpatient surgery at a Tier 1 hospital, for example, is $200,
while the co-pay is $400 at a Tier 2 or Tier 3 hospital.

BCBS said hospitals in the "tiered network" program are evaluated annually on
fiscal awareness, quality, patient safety and patient experience.

Specific details about why Decatur Morgan's ranking dropped were not available.
The Parkway campus, which is used primarily for OBGYN services, is set to go
under the Tier 2 ranking.

Decatur Morgan became part of the Huntsville Hospital Systems on Sept. 1, 2012.
The facility has 112 acute-care beds available, and the campus on the Beltline
is licensed for 120 beds. Hayes said the facilities have an average combined
census of between 130 and 135 patients per day.

The Huntsville Hospital Health Systems has 18 sites and seven acute-care
hospitals, and Decatur Morgan would be the only site with a Tier 2 ranking.

___ (c)2016 The Decatur Daily (Decatur, Ala.) Visit The Decatur Daily (Decatur,
Ala.) at www.decaturdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160306-DD-Tier-ranking-could-double-co-pays-at-Decatur-Morgan-Hospital
-0306-20160306

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2016 The Decatur Daily

                              80 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 24, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Trinity Mother Frances Hospital: U.S. News & World Report Names Trinity Mother
Frances Hospitals & Clinics Among the Best in Texas

LENGTH: 523  words


New Delhi, July 24 -- rinity Mother Frances Hospitals & Clinics has been ranked
as one of the best hospitals for 2013-14 in Texas by U.S. News & World Report.
The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.



"Texas is home to some of the highest-quality healthcare organizations in the
country. We are proud to be ranked #12 in the state and the best hospital in
East Texas," said Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals & Clinics President Lindsey
Bradley, FACHE. "This type of recognition fuels our motivation to provide our
patients with the best possible care coupled with a great patient experience."

"A strong medical presence is a cornerstone piece to any vibrant community such
as ours. We are proud to be recognized for being among the very best in Texas"
said Ray Thompson, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President of
Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals and Clinics.

Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals & Clinics is also recognized among the Best
Hospitals in the Piney Woods region (TX). Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals and
Clinics is high-performing in Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gastroenterology & GI
Surgery, Geriatrics, Nephrology, Neurology & Neurosurgery, Orthopedics,
Pulmonology, and Urology.

"Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals & Clinics aims at the highest quality care for
all of our patients and I am proud of every Trinity Mother Frances employee for
their dedication and focus that keeps Mother Frances Hospital an award-winning
medical destination," said President and Chief Medical Officer Steven Keuer, MD.
"The eight areas we received highest performance for are a testament to our
mission for quality healthcare and we hope this number grows in years to come."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 14, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A dozen St. Louis area hospitals score A's in safety ranking

BYLINE:  From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 364 words


Missouri's statewide ranking for hospital safety rose this year to 20th in the
nation from 26th last fall, while neighboring Illinois' dipped to 23rd this year
from 15th last fall, according to a new report by an independent nonprofit group
focused on health care.

The report, released Wednesday by The Leapfrog Group, assigned grades to
hospitals across the country for patient safety and then ranked states based on
the percentage of their hospitals that earned A's.

In Missouri, 22 of the 59 hospitals graded, or 37.3 percent, received A's. In
Illinois, 38 of the 113 hospitals graded, or 33.6 percent, received A's. No
hospital in Missouri or Illinois received an F.

Leapfrog calculates hospitals' grades based on a number of measures, including
the rates of hospital-associated infections, patient falls, accidental punctures
and lacerations, deaths from treatable complications after surgery and physician
staffing in intensive care units, among others. To see individual hospitals'
grades, go to www.hospitalsafetygrade.org.

Danny Chun, a spokesman for the Illinois Health and Hospital Association, said
patients shouldn't put too much stock in any one rating or ranking. He called
Leapfrog's overall ranking a "crude measure" of hospital safety.

"We welcome information that can help consumers make decisions, but as always we
recommend consumers and patients not rely on any one source of data or report,
that they look at multiple sources, multiple reports and obviously talk to your
doctor," Chun said.

He noted that there were many reports and rankings of hospitals done by a number
of different groups, all with different methodologies. One hospital might earn
top marks on one report but not another.

"There is no gold standard or holy grail of measures yet," Chun said.

A dozen hospitals in the St. Louis area received A's: Alton Memorial Hospital,
Barnes-Jewish West County, Des Peres Hospital, Mercy Hospital St. Louis, Mercy
Hospital Washington, Mercy Hospital Jefferson, Progress West (O'Fallon, Ill.),
St. Luke's (Chesterfield), SSM Health St. Joseph (both Lake Saint Louis and St.
Charles locations), SSM Health St. Mary's (Richmond Heights) and SSM Health St.
Clare (Fenton).

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Don Bale, an obstetrician, works at his practice at Mercy Hospital on
his birthday on Monday, Feb. 29, 2016, on  the Leap Year. Bale joked that he is
celebrating his 17th birthday. Photo by Christian Gooden,
cgooden@post-dispatch.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 6, 2006 Wednesday

Ontario hospital report card proves difficult

BYLINE: ANNE McILROY AND UNNATI GANDHI

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 817 words


The Fraser Institute has released a report card on Ontario hospitals that
includes the death rates from stroke, heart attack and other conditions at
institutions across the province.

"The goal of this new hospital report card is to contribute to the improvement
of hospital care by providing quality of care information directly to patients
and the general public," said Mark Mullins, co-author and executive director of
the Vancouver-based think tank.

It was a difficult and complicated endeavour.

The Globe and Mail was initially part of the report card project, which ranks
hospitals in the province, and planned to publish the results on its website.
But in June senior managers decided the results were too limited.

The think tank bought the initial data from the Canadian Institute for Health
Information, a non-profit organization that gathers and analyzes information
about health care in Canada.

The Fraser Institute had to get permission to publish data collected from each
hospital. Only 43 of 136 acute-care hospitals in the province agreed to have
their institutions identified by name. The top two hospitals in the ranking
can't be named. Neither can the 10 bottom-ranked hospitals over the past three
years.

The report card was based on more than 8.5 million patient records from 1997 to
2005, which were adjusted, Mr. Mullins said, to account for age, sex and medical
condition.

In theory, this means that hospitals that treat more difficult cases - that get
all the trauma cases, for example - aren't penalized. This risk-adjustment
formula has been used to perform rankings in a number of hospitals in the United
States.

The report includes 50 measures of patient safety and quality of care, although
only nine were used to rank the hospitals. Mr. Mullins said the Fraser Institute
wants to empower patients to make informed choices about their care.

The overall ranking of the hospitals was compiled using what the Fraser
Institute calls the hospital mortality index, based on death rates from hip
fractures, heart attacks, congestive heart failure and other conditions.

How meaningful are the overall rankings? How significant are the differences
between hospitals based on their overall score?

"We have not made any claims about the statistical significance of any
differences between rates, scores or ranks . . .," Mr. Mullins said in June,
when The Globe was making its decision on whether to disassociate itself from
the report.

"We have also not made any inferences as to whether the differences in results
are due to random chance or differences of care."

Mr. Mullins said people can use the indicators to compare their local hospital
to the provincial average. Results can be found on the website,
fraserinstitute.ca.

The press release issued by the Fraser Institute noted that the indicators
applied to acute and inpatient care only. "The results cannot be generalized to
assessing the overall performance of any given hospital," it said. It is also
not recommended, the press release said, "to choose a hospital based solely on
statistics and descriptions such as those given in this report."

Colin MacKenzie, managing editor of news at The Globe, said the report card was
a worthwhile idea. "But it's clear that for a variety of reasons the rankings
aren't as meaningful as we had hoped. We wish the Fraser Institute well in
refining the survey in subsequent years."

The rankings didn't take into account success rates on surgeries like hip
replacements, or patient satisfaction. Cancer treatment was not assessed. The
report didn't consider patients' socioeconomic status, an important determinant
of health, nor did it identify whether patients were in palliative care.

Small hospitals can have wildly different numbers from year to year. If three
out of six stroke patients die one year, but none out of 10 the next, the stroke
mortality rate for that hospital would drop from 50 per cent to zero.

All hospitals were given a chance to review the data. Mr. Mullins said their
responses are posted on the institute's website. The methodology used in the
rankings is also explained there.

It is very difficult to rank hospitals, said Jennifer Zelmer, vice-president of
research and analysis at the Canadian Institute for Health Information.

"Hospitals provide a wide range of services to many different types of patients
and different indicators reflect this mix. Overall rankings are challenging.
What indicators you include, how you measure them, and how you combine them can
all make a big difference to results."

The Ontario Hospital Association, which puts out its own hospital report card
annually, said it doesn't know enough about the institute's methodology, but
said it needs to be closely scrutinized by academics.

"No one should draw conclusions about hospitals from the report we have seen
today," said Hilary Short, OHA president and CEO.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 27, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Dana-Farber/Boston Children's Again Named a Top National Pediatric Cancer
Program

LENGTH: 785  words


June 27 -- U.S. News & World Report has ranked Dana-Farber/Boston Children's
Cancer and Blood Disorders Center the nation's #2 pediatric cancer program in
its new 2017-18 Best Children's Hospitals report. This marks the ninth year
since 2008 that Dana-Farber/Boston Children's has been ranked one of the top two
pediatric cancer centers in the country, a record that surpasses other United
States centers. Boston Children's Hospital remained the best pediatric hospital.

"Once again, we are honored by U.S. News' consistent recognition of the
exceptional, multidisciplinary care we offer our young cancer patients and our
ongoing commitment to research into new therapeutic avenues," said David A.
Williams, MD, president of Dana-Farber/Boston Children's and chief scientific
officer of Boston Children's Hospital. "This U.S. News ranking is testament to
the unique strength that comes from marrying a world-class cancer center with a
world-class children's hospital, leading to survival rates that are better than
the national average, despite the fact that we attract some of the most complex
cases."

Dana-Farber/ Boston Children's brings together two internationally known
research and teaching institutions that have provided comprehensive care for
pediatric oncology and hematology patients since 1947. The Harvard Medical
School affiliates share a clinical staff that delivers inpatient care and
surgery at Boston Children's and most outpatient care at Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute.

Overall, U.S. News ranked Boston Children's #1 or #2 in nine of the ten
specialty areas it rates, several of which are involved in the treatment of
pediatric cancer or the side effects of therapy. Among them, are
neurology/neurosurgery, whose patients include children with brain tumors, and
orthopedics/orthopedic surgery, whose patients include children with cancerous
bone tumors. Boston Children's also garnered #1 or #2 rankings in
cardiology/heart surgery, endocrinology, gastroenterology/GI surgery,
neonatology, nephrology, and urology. It ranked #3 in pulmonology.

"In addition to the excellence of our pediatric oncology clinicians, our access
to top pediatric specialists in disciplines from neurology to cardiology to
endocrinology makes us uniquely poised to treat both cancer and the side effects
of treatments that affect children's developing bodies," said Lisa Diller, MD,
chief medical officer of Dana-Farber/Boston Children's. "Our pediatric
pathologists possess the expertise needed to accurately diagnose a patient's
cancer and uncover its genetic abnormalities so we can develop the appropriate
treatment plan. We deliver this care in a child-friendly environment, complete
with psychosocial support to help families through a stressful time in their
lives."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of children with rare or life-threatening illnesses find the best
medical care available. The rankings are the only comprehensive source of
quality-related information on U.S. pediatric centers.

"The pediatric centers on this year's Best Children's Hospitals Honor Roll show
outstanding dedication to top-quality care for patients and expertise spanning
multiple specialties" said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow. "U.S.
News wants to highlight these Honor Roll hospitals that deliver state-of-the-art
medical care to children with complex illnesses across a wide range of
conditions."

The 11th annual rankings recognize the top 50 pediatric facilities across the
U.S. in 10 pediatric specialties, including cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology and gastrointestinal
surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics,
pulmonology and urology. Hospitals received points for being ranked in a
specialty, and higher-ranking hospitals receive more points. The Best Children's
Hospitals Honor Roll recognizes the 10 hospitals that received the most points
overall.

The U.S. News Best Children's Hospitals rankings rely on clinical data and on an
annual survey of pediatric specialists. The rankings methodology considers
clinical outcomes, such as mortality and infection rates, efficiency and
coordination of care delivery and compliance with "best practices."

Survival rates after surgery, adequacy of nurse staffing, procedure and patient
volume, availability of programs for particular illnesses and conditions and
much more can be viewed on health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings.

This year's rankings will be published in the U.S. News & World Report's "Best
Hospitals 2018" guidebook, which will be available on newsstands September 12.

Source: Dana-Farber Cancer Institute

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 29, 2012 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Inova Health System: U.S. News Ranks Inova Fairfax Hospital # 1 in the
Washington, DC Metro Area

LENGTH: 266  words


New Delhi, Sept. 29 -- U.S. News & World Report today released its annual Best
Hospitals rankings, citing Inova Fairfax Hospital as the top Washington, DC
Metro hospital. All of Inova Health System's five hospitals advanced to the top
20 with 4 in the top ten. This year's Best Hospitals, the 23rd annual edition,
showcases more than 720 of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals. Fewer than 150
are nationally ranked in at least one of 16 medical specialties. The rest of the
recognized hospitals met a standard of performance nearly as demanding in one or
more specialties.



"Inova is reinventing healthcare, increasing value for our patients," observed
Knox Singleton, CEO of Inova Health System. "Our care model emphasizes
collaboration between physician, patient and family underscoring wellness,
education, research and care management as part of our commitment to improving
the health of the community we serve."

The hospital rankings, said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow, are
like a GPS-type aid to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in
the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges. "All
of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

The rankings were published by U.S. News in collaboration with RTI
International, a research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.
Highlights of the 2012-13 rankings will appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals
2013 guidebook, to go on sale in August.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                              July 14, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                  ALL EDITION

Magazine taps SMH as a top hospital;
U.S. News and World Report puts it among top 50 in U.S. in 6 specialties.

BYLINE: By DAVID GULLIVER david.gulliver@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


Sarasota Memorial Hospital again ranked among the top hospitals in the country
and outperformed all Florida hospitals in the latest U.S. News and World Report
rankings.

The magazine's analysis placed the hospital among the top 50 in six of 16
specialties, ranging from cancer to orthopedics.

Hospital officials are predictably pleased.

"I couldn't be more delighted," Chief Executive Officer Gwen MacKenzie said.

"People in the region can have the confidence they can get the care here that
they can get at the academic centers."

Those university-based hospitals dominate the list, but community hospitals hold
their own.

For example, in heart surgery, Sarasota Memorial placed 25th -- just below
University of Michigan Hospital and just above Yale-New Haven Hospital.

The magazine's staff have noted Sarasota's success. In a July 8 interview on
CNN, the magazine's health editor, Dr. Bernadine Healy, cited Sarasota as an
example of how high-quality care transfers from universities to community
hospitals.

The national publicity is becoming a summer ritual. This year's edition makes
three straight appearances for the hospital.

It placed in seven categories in 2004 and improved in four the next year.

This year the hospital dropped to six categories, in part because of changes in
the study.

The magazine stopped ranking hospitals for geriatric care, saying primary health
care was more relevant to the field.

That cost Sarasota Memorial a specialty. It ranked 37th in geriatrics in 2005.

This year, the hospital appeared in two categories for the first time. It ranked
44th for treatment of respiratory diseases and 50th for gynecology.

But it dropped out of the rankings for ear, nose and throat, and urology.

It tied for 23rd place in heart care and surgery, ranked 30th for orthopedics,
42nd for digestive disorders and 50th for cancer. Orthopedics is the only field
where the ranking improved from last year.

The magazine said its ratings are based equally on health outcome data,
reputation and care-related areas such as technology and nurse-patient ratios.
The health data is from 2002 through 2004.

MacKenzie said community hospitals tend to suffer because they lack the name
recognition of universities' teaching hospitals.

Those university-based hospitals were Sarasota's closest in-state competition.

Jackson Memorial Hospital at University of Miami had five ranked specialties and
Shands at the University of Florida had four rankings.

Other Florida hospitals on the list include H. Lee Moffit Cancer Center, 11th
place for cancer, and Tampa General Hospital, 46th for orthopedics.

Only 176 of 5,189 hospitals examined -- about 3 percent -- received a ranking in
one or more specialties, the magazine said.

The rankings appear in the magazine's July 17 issue and are available on the
magazine's Web site, www.usnews.com.

Want to see the list?

Go to www.usnews.com, and click on the "Best Hospitals" link.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2006



CORRECTION: A story in Thursday's (Friday's) business section reported that
Sarasota Memorial Hospital was the only hospital in Florida ranked in six
specialties in U.S. News and World Report's "Best Hospitals" issue. The magazine
said Friday its analysis should have combined two hospitals, Bascom Palmer Eye
Institute and Jackson Memorial Hospital, both in Miami. Together, they also rank
in six specialties.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.

                              86 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                              May 30, 2008 Friday

Children's Hospitals Placed Among Best

BYLINE: Staff Reporter of the Sun

SECTION: NEW YORK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 176 words


Four New York-area hospitals are among the top 30 children's hospitals listed by
U.S. News and World Report in a ranking that is to be published Friday.

NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the
Children's Hospital at Montefiore, and Schneider Children's Hospital on Long
Island were among the nation's top children's hospitals, according to the
ranking, which appears in the magazine's June 9 issue. The ranking weighed each
hospital's reputation, clinical outcomes, and other measures such as nursing
care and technology. Nationwide, 113 hospitals were ranked in seven categories,
including general pediatrics; heart and heart surgery; neonatal care; cancer;
digestive disorders; neurology and neurosurgery, and respiratory diseases.

Among the New York hospitals, the highest ranking on any list was achieved by
the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of New York-Presbyterian, which ranked
fourth in neonatal care. "We are making major moves in the pediatric area," the
hospital's president and CEO, Dr. Herbert Pardes, said.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 21, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

NWH Recognized as a Top Hospital for Gynecology, Geriatrics, Urology,
Orthopedics, Neurosurgery

LENGTH: 377  words


July 21 -- Northern Westchester Hospital issued the following press release:

Northern Westchester Hospital announced today that it has been ranked as one of
the best hospitals in New York for 2014 - 2015 by U.S. News & World Report.  The
annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 25th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.  In addition to
being recognized as a Best Hospital, Northern Westchester Hospital was
recognized regionally for expertise in Gynecology, Urology, Geriatrics,
Orthopedics, and Neurosurgery.



For 2014-15, U.S. News evaluated hospitals in 16 adult specialties and ranked
the top 50 in most of the specialties.  Just 12 percent of the nearly 5,000
hospitals that were analyzed for Best Hospitals 2014-15 earned a regional
ranking in even one specialty.  NWH was ranked within five different
specialties.

"Providing the highest level of quality, patient-centered care is our priority
at Northern Westchester Hospital.  We have designed and implemented numerous
processes that help to ensure that high quality care is consistently delivered
to our patients.  This recognition by U.S. News & World Report is further
testament to the commitment by our physicians and staff to going the extra mile
to care for our patients," commented Joel Seligman, President and CEO of
Northern Westchester Hospital.

"The data tell the story - a hospital that emerged from our analysis as one of
the best has much to be proud of," says U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery
Comarow.  "A Best Hospital has demonstrated its expertise in treating the most
challenging patients."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk because of age or multiple health problems. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing
levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C.  Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

Source: Northern Westchester Hospital

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Names UnityPoint Health - St. Luke's Hospital Among the
Best in Iowa

LENGTH: 351  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- UnityPoint Health St. Luke's Hospital is among the
nation's Best Regional Hospitals, according to U.S. News and World Report.  St.
Luke's is ranked second in Iowa and is recognized as one of America's
high-performing hospitals in six specialties in the U.S. News & World Report
2013-14 edition. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th
year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.

"We're very proud to offer advanced specialty care and leading edge technology
to Eastern Iowans and pleased that U.S. News has determined the high value care
we provide is as good as can be found almost anywhere else in the country," said
Ted Townsend, UnityPoint Health - St. Luke's Hospital president and CEO.

St. Luke's ranked  high-performing in six specialty areas:

* Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* Gastroenterology and GI surgery

* Geriatrics

* Orthopedics

* Pulmonology

* Urology

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in
any specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they may face a particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International; a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         LaGrange Daily News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday

WGH earns top rankings in industry report

BYLINE: LaGrange Daily News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words


Nov. 24--LAGRANGE -- West Georgia Health announced this week it achieved its
best quality rankings as determined by CareChex, a Quality Rating Service of
Comparion, an independent healthcare research company.

West Georgia Health ranked in the top three of all Georgia hospitals in the 2016
rankings and the top 100 U.S. hospitals in seven categories for medical
excellence. For patient safety, West Georgia Health ranked in the top four of
all Georgia hospitals and the top 100 U.S. hospitals in four different
categories.

For patient safety, the 2016 CareChex rankings also placed West Georgia Health
among the top 10 percent of all U.S., Southern region and Georgia hospitals in
the following clinical categories: cardiac care, major bowel procedures and
pulmonary care.

"This year's CareChex report is our best one ever, and our excellent rankings
are a testament to our employees' teamwork and their dedication to delivering
safe, high quality care to every patient they serve," said West Georgia Health
President and CEO Jerry Fulks. "We don't seek out awards or special recognition
-- that's not part of our culture. So when you get recognized by an independent
third party that has conducted research to identify top ranked medical
excellence and patient safety, it's very, very gratifying."

These rankings are based on independent research conducted by CareChex -- a
division of Comparion, which determines these rankings via its National Quality
Rating Database. This database includes virtually all general, acute,
non-federal U.S. hospitals, and incorporates the most recent three years of
federal fiscal year data and runs approximately two years behind the current
calendar year.

The CareChex rating service uses both public and proprietary information to
compare the quality of hospital and physician care to national, state and local
standards. The program analyzes a variety of process, outcome and patient
satisfaction measures to assign a composite score and rating. Readers may visit
www.carechex.com to learn more about the specifics in how these ratings are
determined and to see how West Georgia Health compares with other hospitals
throughout the state and the nation.

From a press release submitted by West Georgia Health.

___ (c)2015 the LaGrange Daily News (LaGrange, Ga.) Visit the LaGrange Daily
News (LaGrange, Ga.) at www.lagrangenews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151124-GV-WGH-earns-top-rankings-in-industry-report-1124-20151124

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GV


                       Copyright 2015 LaGrange Daily News

                              90 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 24, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Fox Chase Cancer Center Listed Among the Best Cancer Hospitals in the Nation by
U.S. News and World Report

LENGTH: 277  words


New Delhi, Sept. 24 -- Fox Chase Cancer Center has been listed among the top 50
cancer hospitals in the nation in U.S. News & World Report's annual Best
Hospitals rankings, with nephrology designated as a high-performing specialty
area. The Center also ranked 6th among all hospitals in the Philadelphia
metropolitan area.



"We are very pleased to see Fox Chase listed, once again, among the top cancer
hospitals in the nation," says Michael V. Seiden, MD, PhD, president and CEO of
Fox Chase. "Rankings, such as these, serve as a point of pride for everyone at
our Center. We expect that our new affiliation with Temple Health will not only
help us become a stronger cancer center, but will also have a positive impact on
rankings such as these in years to come."

The rankings have been published annually by U.S. News & World Report for the
past 23 years - showcasing more than 720 of the nation's roughly 5,000
hospitals. They are based on a number of variables, including a national survey
that asks physicians to rate institutions on reputation. Among the other factors
considered are types of facilities available, specific services offered, patient
safety measures, Magnet nursing status, and selected outcomes metrics. Many of
the data points are averaged over a rolling three-year period.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings were published in collaboration with RTI
International, a research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.
Highlights of the 2012-13 rankings will appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals
2013 guidebook, to go on sale in August. The complete rankings and methodology
are available at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

UK HealthCare is No. 1 in Kentucky in latest U.S. News Best Hospitals Rankings

BYLINE: The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 698 words


Aug. 02--LEXINGTON -- UK HealthCare's University of Kentucky Albert B. Chandler
Hospital is No. 1 in Kentucky in the U.S. News and World Report's Best Hospitals
Rankings released today. It also is the only hospital in the state rated as High
Performing in cancer. The complete rankings for 2016-17 are now available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

In addition to being named as top hospital in Kentucky, UK HealthCare is
nationally ranked No. 45 in Geriatrics and "High Performing" in six specialty
areas including: Cancer, Diabetes & Endocrinology, Nephrology, Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Orthopedics and Pulmonology.

UK HealthCare also ranked as high performing -- the highest rating -- in eight
out of nine types of Common Adult Procedures and Conditions including: Heart
Bypass Surgery, Heart Failure, Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm, Colon Cancer Surgery,
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), Hip Replacement, Knee Replacement
and Lung Cancer.

"This acknowledges the exemplary work of our health care team in providing the
highest quality patient care in the Commonwealth," said Dr. Michael Karpf, UK
executive vice president for health affairs. "We are committed to being one of
the premier academic medical centers in the country and dedicated in serving
those who need complex medical care without ever having to travel far from their
home."

To be recognized as a Best Hospital this year, a hospital had to have been
categorized in the American Hospital Association annual survey database as a
general medical-surgical hospital and had to earn either at least one national
ranking in the 12 data-driven specialties or at least four ratings of "high
performing" across the 12 specialty rankings and nine rated procedures and
conditions.

"This honor belongs to our physicians, nurses and staff," said Dr. Phillip K.
Chang, UK HealthCare chief medical officer. "Every day and every night, they go
above and beyond to make sure our patients get the best possible care."

The U.S. News Best Hospitals analysis includes multiple clinical specialties,
procedures and conditions. Scores are based on a variety of patient outcome and
care-related factors, such as patient safety and nurse staffing.

In February 2016, UK HealthCare achieved Magnet Status -- the highest
institutional honor awarded for nursing excellence from the American Nurses
Credentialing Center's (ANCC) Magnet Recognition Program. This designation
factors into the U.S. News Rankings and impacted this year's score.

"Our entire interprofessional team is proud of our Magnet designation and its
impact and significance for UK HealthCare and the patients we serve," said
Colleen Swartz, UK HealthCare chief nursing executive. "The team's work has been
exemplified in the production of superb clinical outcomes as well as excellence
in patient and family centered care and are well deserving of this recognition
based on their hard work, commitment and scientific approach to care across the
continuum."

UK HealthCare has seen the number of patients who are 75 or older nearly double
in the past 10 years. This volume and the level of care for these patients
attributed to the national ranking in geriatrics. Additionally, the University
of Kentucky and UK HealthCare are home to the only National Institute on Aging
(NIA) funded Alzheimer's disease center in Kentucky with the prestigious UK
Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, and Markey Cancer Center is the only National
Cancer Institute-designated center in the Commonwealth.

"Our goal is to provide the safest and highest quality patient care to those who
come to us from every county in Kentucky, as well as from many other states, by
providing them the expertise of integrated, multidisciplinary teams working to
solve the most complex health issues," said Bo Cofield, UK HealthCare vice
president and chief clinical operations officer. "I congratulate our entire UK
HealthCare team on this tremendous accomplishment and commend their work and
dedication to patient care in the Commonwealth."

___ (c)2016 The Floyd County Times (Prestonsburg, Ky.) Visit The Floyd County
Times (Prestonsburg, Ky.) at www.floydcountytimes.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160802-QO-UK-HealthCare-is-No-1-in-Kentucky-in-latest-U-S-News-Best-
Hospitals-Rankings-0802-20160802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QO


            Copyright 2016 The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

                              92 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 12, 2003 Friday

Sequoia Hospital earns top marks

BYLINE: STAFF WRITER

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: REDWOOD CITY


Sequoia Hospital is one of the best hospitals for women in California, according
to a new report.

Sequoia is the only Bay Area hospital that received a five-star ranking for both
obstetrics and women's health services from HealthGrades, which ranks hospitals
nationally. It's also one of 10 in California that got top marks for both
services.

Hospital President Glenna Vaskelis noted that HealthGrades recently rated
Sequoia as the No. 1 cardiac-services hospital in California; she said the
latest ranking underscores Sequoia's broad commitment to providing health care
in the community and "is a testament to our outstanding doctors, nurses,
technicians and administrative staff."

Roberta Greenspan, a Belmont woman who gave birth by Caesarean section at
Sequoia, said in a news release she wasn't surprised by the high ranking. A
person's first time in a hospital can be intimidating, she said, but the doctor
and nursing staff were skilled and attentive.

HealthGrades based the rankings for obstetrics on the volume of single live-born
deliveries, complication rates, presence of a newborn-intensive-care unit, the
preplanned first-time Caesarean section rate, and the newborn mortality rate.
Rankings for women's health services were based on coronary-bypass surgery,
valve-replacement surgery, interventional procedures, heart attack, heart
failure and stroke mortality rates, and obstetrics.

Mills-Peninsula Hospital in Burlingame received three-star ratings -- meaning
the hospital's performance was "as expected" -- in both categories. Seton
Medical Center in Daly City earned a five-star ranking in obstetrics and a
three-star ranking for women's health.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers

                              93 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Moffitt Cancer Center is Top-Ranked Cancer Hospital in Florida Based on US News,
World Report

LENGTH: 397  words


July 21 -- Moffitt Cancer Center is the top-ranked cancer hospital in Florida
based on the U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals for Cancer Care rankings
released today. Moffitt is No. 18 overall in cancer. The national Best Hospitals
rankings, now in their 26th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the
most challenging patients - those whose illnesses pose unusual challenges due to
underlying conditions, procedure difficulty or other medical issues. Moffitt,
the only National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center based
in Florida, has been recognized by U.S. News since 1999.

"Moffitt provides the highest quality of care to its patients and has outcomes
that are among the best in the country. Our talented clinical and research staff
is dedicated to advancing cancer care through personalized medicine and
cutting-edge translational research," said Alan F. List, M.D., president and CEO
of Moffitt. "Moffitt is honored to be acknowledged by U.S. News as one of the
top cancer hospitals in the nation for the 17th year in a row."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties and ranked the top 50 in
most of the specialties. Less than 3 percent of the nearly 5,000 hospitals that
were analyzed for Best Hospitals 2015-16 were nationally ranked in even one
specialty.

"A Best Hospital has demonstrated expertise in treating the most challenging
patients," said Ben Harder, chief of health analysis at U.S. News. "A hospital
that emerged from our analysis as one of the best has much to be proud of.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk because of age or multiple health problems. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing
levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. U.S. News used the same data, as well as the new Best Hospitals for Common
Care ratings published in May, to produce the state and metro rankings.

A complete list of rankings is available online and will appear in the U.S. News
"Best Hospitals 2016" guidebook, available in August.

Source: Moffitt Cancer Center

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Naperville Sun, Ill.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Edward Hospital in Naperville again ranks among top in state

BYLINE: Suzanne Baker, Naperville Sun, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 317 words


Aug. 08--Edward Hospital in Naperville continues to rank among the top hospitals
in Illinois, according to U.S. News & World Report.

In their 28th year, the 2017-18 Best Hospitals rankings released Tuesday
compared more than 4,500 medical centers nationwide in 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. This year 152 hospitals were nationally ranked in at
least one specialty.

For patients seeking care close to home, U.S. News also recognized 535 Best
Regional Hospitals, ranking them in state and metro based on their performance
in both complex and common care.

Edward Hospital this year was awarded a No. 12 ranking in the Chicago
metropolitan area and 13 in Illinois, earning a "high performing" rating in
seven procedures/conditions: urology, geriatrics, gastroenterology, colon
cancer, heart failure, heart bypass and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or
COPD.

The Naperville hospital has remained fairly consistent over the last few years
in its state rankings, awarded 14 in 2016-17 and 13 in 2015-16.

"The ranking is an honor in light of how many excellent hospitals there are in
Illinois," Bill Kottmann, president and CEO of Edward Hospital, said in an
email.

"We view it as a validation of the quality of care Edward provides as well as an
incentive to improve our performance and move higher on the list," he said.

The top ranked hospital in Illinois was Northwestern Memorial Hospital in
Chicago, which also earned a spot on U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals
Honor Roll. The distinction was awarded to only 20 hospitals in the United
States that deliver exceptional treatment across multiple areas of care.

The Mayo Clinic claimed the No. 1 spot on the Best Hospitals Honor Roll.

subaker@tribpub.com

___ (c)2017 the Naperville Sun (Naperville, Ill.) Visit the Naperville Sun
(Naperville, Ill.) at www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs/naperville-sun Distributed
by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170808-NAP-Edward-Hospital
-in-Naperville-again-ranks-among-top-in-state-0808-20170808

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NAP


                                 Copyright 2017

                              95 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

MAYO, SHANDS ON TOP;
U.S. News & World Report: Mayo, Gainesville facility tie for state's best

BYLINE: Charlie Patton

SECTION: Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 744 words


The Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville is ranked the top hospital in metro Jacksonville
and is tied for first among Florida hospitals in U.S. News & World Report's
annual evaluation of hospitals, released online Tuesday.

It was also named among the top hospitals nationally in eight specialities: 29th
in cancer; 29th in ear, nose & throat; 10th in gastroenterology; 29th in
geriatrics; 35th in gynecology; 31st in neurology & neurosurgery; 30th in
orthopedics; and 49th in pulmonology.

Three other specialities, nephrology, urology and cardiology & heart surgery,
were designated high performing. Mayo also was named high performing in seven
procedures/conditions.

UF Health Shands Hospital in Gainesville was also ranked first among Florida
hospitals by U.S. News & World Report. Like Mayo, it was nationally ranked in
eight specialties and rated high performing in three specialties. It was rated
high performing in seven procedures/conditions.

Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville did well in the rankings. The hospital
ranked as the No. 2 hospital in the metro Jacksonville area and the No. 4
hospital in the state. It was ranked 50th in the country in gynecology and was
named high performing in four specialties: diabetes & endocrinology,
gastroenterology, nephrology and neurology & neurosurgery. Baptist was rated
high performing in eight procedures/conditions.

Included in Baptist's ranking was Baptist Medical Center South, which shares a
license with Baptist Jacksonville, and Wolfson Children's Hospital, which shares
Baptist Jacksonville's downtown campus. Wolfson was nationally ranked 46th in
pediatric gastroenterology and 48th in pediatric neurology & neurosurgery.

UF Health Jacksonville was named the No. 3 hospital in Jacksonville and 18th in
the state. It was rated high performing in two specialties, urology and
nephrology. It was also rated high performing in two procedures/conditions.

Since only hospitals that are nationally ranked or designated high performing in
a specialty are given a state ranking, no other area hospital was ranked by U.S.
New & World Report.

Area hospitals that received high performing ratings on procedures/conditions
included Baptist Medical Center Beaches (2), Baptist Medical Center Nassau (1),
Flagler Hospital (3), Memorial Hospital (2), Orange Park Medical Center (2), St.
Vincent's Medical Center Southside (2) and St. Vincent's Medical Center
Riverside (2).

A year ago, Mayo in Jacksonville was named the No. 4 hospital in Florida and was
nationally ranked in four specialties: 40th in gastroenterology, 41st in
geriatrics, 46th in neurology and neurosurgery and 48th in cancer. Six
specialties, four of which are now nationally ranked, were designated high
performing. Cardiology & heart surgery is new to the high performing list this
year.

'PEOPLE, SPACE AND TECHNOLOGY'

Gianrico Farrugia, who became CEO of the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville in January
2015, called the rankings "remarkably gratifying news for us."

He said Mayo has been investing heavily in "people, space and technology" as it
continues to establish itself as a destination regional hospital. In March
Farrugia announced that Mayo in Jacksonville would begin $100 million in major
construction projects this year.

That includes a 150,000-square-foot "destination" building that will have four
stories with the potential to add 11 more stories. That building will
significantly increase the space available to the hematology & oncology and to
the neurology & neurosurgery departments.

The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, which has
partnered with Baptist Health to create the Baptist MD Anderson Cancer Center in
Jacksonville, was again ranked the top hospital for cancer treatment. The Mayo
Clinic in Rochester, Minn., was ranked the No. 1 hospital in the country.

This is the 27th year that U.S. News & World Report has compiled the rankings,
which encompass 16 medical specialties. U.S. News analyzes data for 5,000
medical centers to determine rankings.

Charlie Patton: (904) 359-4413

RANKING METRO JACKSONVILLE

According to U.S. News & World Report, the top Jacksonville hospitals are:

1. Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville

2. Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville

3. UF Health Jacksonville

No Florida hospitals made U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll of the top 20
hospitals in the United States, a list that was led by the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, Minn.

To see the rankings or find other facilities, go to health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Mayo Clinic U.S. News & World Report has named the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville
Florida's best hospital in its latest report, released Tuesday. Gianrico
Farrugia, CEO of the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, called the new rankings
"remarkably gratifying news." Mayo Clinic Mayo in Jacksonville was ranked in the
top 50 nationally in eight areas of practiced and designated high performing in
three others. Mug: Farrugia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Florida Times-Union

                              96 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday
                                 METRO EDITION

Mayo Clinic ranked as top U.S. hospital by U.S. News

BYLINE: DAN BROWNING; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 430 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Rochester clinic led the pack in half of the specialties analyzed
by the magazine.


The Mayo Clinic was named the nation's No. 1 hospital by U.S. News & World
Report on Tuesday, the first time the Minnesota medical giant has earned top
honors in the magazine's annual ranking of adult care across 16 medical
specialties.

Mayo, based in Rochester, edged out Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston for
the top rung after Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore ended its 21-year reign
and fell to third place.

"This is a tremendous acknowledgment of the great work our staff does every day
to deliver high quality, affordable health care for our patients," said Dr. John
Wald, medical director for public affairs and marketing at Mayo.

"While no single set of measures can perfectly represent health care quality, we
are proud to be recognized for the work we do," Wald added.

The U.S. News index, begun

in 1990, is just one of many national rankings of hospital quality and care, but
it's gold for marketers and is certain to burnish Mayo's already distinguished
reputation.

The 2014-2015 list of 4,743 hospitals was published Tuesday.

The rankings exclude routine care in hospitals, and don't consider cost as a
factor in the analysis. The magazine cautions consumers that the rankings are
only a starting point, and urges further research specific to each patient.

The index considers a hospital's reputation among specialists, in addition to
survival rates, patient safety and other care-related indicators such as nursing
and clinically-proven technology.

Of the nearly 5,000 hospitals analyzed, just 144 facilities ranked among the top
in at least one of the 16 specialties analyzed. Mayo Clinic ranked No. 1 in half
of the specialties.

The index also provides state and regional rankings. Abbott Northwestern
Hospital in Minneapolis ranked second in the state, with four nationally ranked
specialties, followed by Mercy Hospital in Coon Rapids, with one nationally
ranked specialty.

The University of Minnesota Medical Center, Fairview, ranked fourth statewide,
with no nationally ranked specialties but 12 listed as "high-performing."

The index is based on data for a dozen specialties: cancer; cardiology and heart
surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

In addition, ophthalmology, psychiatry, rehabilitation and rheumatology are
evaluated as reputation measures.

Federal facilities were not included in the analysis because of the difficulty
in getting data, the magazine said.

Dan Browning · 612-673-4493

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday

UCLA and Cedars-Sinai among "Best Hospitals" in U.S. News Ranking

BYLINE: By Sarah Favot sarah.favot@sgvn.com @sarahfavot on Twitter.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


UCLA Medical Center and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center are ranked among the top
hospitals in the country, according to 2013/2014 "Best Hospitals" rankings from
U.S. News and World Report released online Tuesday.

Several other hospitals in metro Los Angeles and the Inland Empire are also
recognized by the news magazine as being top performing in different specialty
categories.

UCLA and Cedars-Sinai, ranked 5th and 13th respectively, are among the top 18
hospitals that rank at or near the top in six specialty categories. A
designation known as the "honor roll."

"We really believe if we take great care of our patients, everything else will
take care of itself," said Dr. David Feinberg, president of the UCLA Health
System and CEO of the UCLA Hospital System, adding that hospital staff strive to
ensure every patient receives technically-advanced and passionate care.

Although patients may use hospital rankings when looking for a hospital,
Feinberg said, the best recommendations come from patients who have received
care at UCLA.

"We don't really care about the rankings," he said, adding that external
validation is good and a testament to the hospital's staff.

Other local hospitals that were ranked in the top 50 in one or more specialty
categories are: Keck Hospital of USC in Los Angeles, UC Irvine Medical Center in
Orange County, Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, City of Hope in Duarte,
Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach and USC Norris Cancer
Hospital in L.A.

In the Inland Empire, Loma Linda University Medical Center in Loma Linda was
also nationally ranked.

The purpose of the rankings is to help patients who need a demanding surgery and
whose care may be affected by age or a chronic condition, according to Avery
Comarow, the magazine's health rankings editor,

As many as 2 million patients require a surgery or care that is technically
challenging or has an increased risk of death or harm, according to Comarow.

The 16 different specialties ranked by U.S. News and World Report are:
cardiology and heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology;
nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; urology;
ophthalmology; psychiatry; rehabilitation and rheumatology.

From a pool of about 5,000 hospitals nationwide, 1,894 hospitals were eligible
to be part of the specialty rankings.

Hospitals are given a score in each specialty based on criteria including:
reputation, death rates for the most demanding cases, patient safety, patient
volume, nurse staffing, special accreditation and certifications earned and
availability of high-tech equipment.

A survey where doctors are asked to name hospitals they consider best in their
specialty for treating difficult cases is also factored in.

Each component has its own weight.

Four of the specialities -- ophthalmology; psychiatry; rehabilitation and
rheumatology -- are solely based on the physician survey.

To view the results, visitusnews.com/hospitals .

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

Loma Linda tops in survey of hospitals

BYLINE: Jim Steinberg, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 377 words


Loma Linda University Medical Center has been ranked No. 1 in the Riverside-San
Bernardino county area in the first ever "Best Hospitals" metro area rankings by
U.S. News and World Report.

The new metro area list, released Tuesday, is aimed at helping local consumers
find closer hospitals, and who may not need specialized expertise found at
other, more distant facilities, according to U.S. News and World Report.

Of the 41 hospitals in the region and Coachella Valley, LLUMC received top
ranking with seven specialties identified as "high performing": cancer, diabetes
and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gynecology; kidney disorders;
pulmonology and urology.

Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Fontana was ranked No. 2, with "high
performing" rankings in three specialties: ear, nose and throat, pulmonology and
urology.

"We are very excited over this news ... this is the recognition of the great
physicians and staff we have working here and are very honored," said Loma Linda
University Medical Center Chief Executive Officer Ruthita Fike. "We have worked
to be very patient-focused and to integrate care."

The new rankings recognize 622 hospitals nationally, in or near major cities,
with a record of high performance in key medical specialties, including 132 of
the 152 hospitals identified as the best in the nation in a report released last
July.

St. Bernardine Medical Center in San Bernardino and Desert Valley Hospital in
Victorville were in a five-way tie for fourth place and were also the only other
San Bernardino County hospitals on the list.

St. Bernardine was ranked as "high performing" for its kidney disorders program
and Desert Valley received the same notation for its pulmonology.

The new rankings were based on the Best Hospitals methodology and data that
produced the 2010-11 national rankings.

All of those participants were whittled down to much smaller groups by specialty
that met benchmarks such as the minimum number of certain types of serious
cases, U.S. News and World Report said on its website.

Rankings were ordered first by a hospital's number of nationally ranked
specialties and then by the number of other specialties in which it was among
the top 25 percent nationally.

To see the full report, go to www.usnews.com/hospitals .

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 9, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester Medical Center Ranked with
Nation's Best Children's Hospitals

LENGTH: 320  words


June 9 -- Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester Medical Center - the
children's hospital for New York's Hudson Valley region and Fairfield County,
Connecticut - has been nationally ranked by U.S. News & World Report in its
2015-16 Best Children's Hospital rankings in the pediatric pulmonology and
pediatric urology specialty areas.

The Best Children's Hospitals rankings highlight U.S. News & World Report's  top
50 U.S. pediatric facilities in a series of subspecialties. The rankings are
based on a combination of clinical data and reputation surveys of pediatric
specialists.

"Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester Medical Center provides
advanced pediatric services to children from our region and beyond and it does
so with skill and compassion resulting in best outcomes.  This is why U.S. News
& World Report has ranked Maria Fareri Children's Hospital in multiple
categories for several years," explained Michael Gewitz, M.D., William Russell
McCurdy Physician-in-Chief, Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester
Medical Center.  "This recognition is due in large measure to the dedicated
effort of the hospital's outstanding clinical and support staffs."

Maria Fareri Children's Hospital cared for its first patients in September 2004.
In this relatively short time, the hospital has become a leading pediatric
advanced-care center," continued Dr. Gewitz.  "These rankings further attest to
the high level of expert care provided by the hospital.  Families come from
across the country and beyond to Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester
Medical Center for the care of their children."

"The pediatric centers ranked in Best Children's Hospitals deserve our
congratulations," said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow. "Children
with life-threatening or rare conditions need the kind of care that these
hospitals deliver day after day."

Source: Westchester Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 26, 2013 Friday

Core Teaching Hospitals for The University of Tennessee Health Science Center
Continue to Rank Among Best in Nation

LENGTH: 812  words

DATELINE: Martin


The University of Tennessee at Martin has issued the following news release:

U.S. News & World Report rankings have once again recognized several core
teaching hospitals for the University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC)
as among the best in the nation. This year, four of UTHSC's core teaching
hospitals appear on the U.S. News list -- Methodist University Hospital and Le
Bonheur Children's Hospital, both in Memphis, the UT Medical Center in
Knoxville, and the Erlanger Medical Center in Chattanooga.

"It is a pleasure to congratulate our hospital partners for this significant
achievement," said UTHSC Chancellor Steve J. Schwab, MD. "It's equally important
to recognize that it is our faculty's diligence, experience and sustained
commitment to high quality patient care that are a foundation for this ongoing
success. UTHSC faculty members are the physicians and clinicians who teach the
generations of health care professionals to come, and who simultaneously provide
the compassionate, quality care in hospitals across this state and region. That
is the foundation for being the best in the nation."

Methodist Hospitals of Memphis has been ranked as one of the best adult
hospitals for 2013-14 in the country for nephrology (#49) and was ranked #1 in
the Memphis metro area. Methodist Hospitals of Memphis is comprised of Methodist
University Hospital (MUH), Methodist North Hospital, Methodist South Hospital
and Methodist Le Bonheur Germantown Hospital. One of UTHSC's primary teaching
hospitals in Memphis and home of the UT Methodist Physicians Practice Group, MUH
was also recognized for an additional national special status in solid organ
transplantation. Eight other specialties were commended as high performing, with
MUH being declared the best adult hospital in West Tennessee and ranked as the
#2 adult hospital in the state of Tennessee.

The UT Medical Center in Knoxville was declared the #3 adult hospital in the
state of Tennessee and the best adult hospital in East Tennessee. It received
high performance commendations in 11 specialties.

The Erlanger Medical Center in Chattanooga was declared high performing in three
areas and best in the Chattanooga metro area.

The adult hospitals join the nationally ranked Le Bonheur Children's Hospital -
home of the UT Le Bonheur Pediatric Specialists Practice Group. Earlier this
year, for the third consecutive year, Le Bonheur was ranked by U.S. News among
the nation's best children's hospitals. On this year's list, Le Bonheur has five
nationally ranked specialties.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients. The rankings for
adult hospitals were recently released; however, rankings for children's
hospitals were provided earlier in the summer. U.S. News evaluates hospitals in
16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it ranks the nation's top 50
hospitals and recognizes other high-performing hospitals that provide care at
nearly the level of their nationally ranked peers.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in
any specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

As Tennessee's only public, statewide, academic health system, the mission of
the University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC) is to bring the
benefits of the health sciences to the achievement and maintenance of human
health, with a focus on the citizens of Tennessee and the region, by pursuing an
integrated program of education, research, clinical care, and public service.
Offering a broad range of postgraduate and selected baccalaureate training
opportunities, the main UTHSC campus is located in Memphis and includes six
colleges: Allied Health Sciences, Dentistry, Graduate Health Sciences, Medicine,
Nursing and Pharmacy. UTHSC also educates and trains cohorts of medicine,
pharmacy and/or allied health students -- in addition to medical residents and
fellows -- at its major sites in Knoxville, Chattanooga and Nashville. Founded
in 1911, during its more than 100 years, UT Health Science Center has educated
and trained more than 56,000 health care professionals in academic settings and
health care facilities across the state.

For more information please visit: http://www.utm.edu.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

UPMC ranked 12th on list of best hospitals

BYLINE: Luis Fabregas

LENGTH: 225 words


UPMC earned a spot on the honor roll of the annual U.S. News & World Report
rankings of the nation's best hospitals.

UPMC ranked 12th overall, up from last year's 13th place. UPMC was  one of 17
hospital systems that made the magazine's annual honor roll.  UPMC also placed
in the top ten in nine medical specialties: Ear, nose  and throat, respiratory
disorders, gynecology, orthopedics, psychiatry,  geriatric care, neurology and
neurosurgery, rheumatology and digestive  disorders.

The Honor Roll lists facilities that demonstrate excellence and  breadth of
expertise by ranking at or near the top in at least six  specialties. The Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore earned the top spot  among about 5,000 hospitals
in the United States for the 22nd year,  according to U.S. News and World
Report's 2011-2012 rankings.

The 2011 rankings also ranked Allegheny General Hospital in  Pittsburgh's North
Side among the top 50 centers in the nation for  quality care in the fields of
cardiology and heart surgery,  gastroenterology and orthopedics.

Allegheny General and several of its sister hospitals -- Forbes  Regional
Hospital in Monroeville, Allegheny Valley Hospital in Natrona  Heights and West
Penn Hospital in Bloomfield -- were recognized in  regional rankings for high
achievement in several of the 16 specialty  areas analyzed by the magazine.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday

Children's hospital in SLC among nation's best

BYLINE: The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 250 words


Primary Children's Medical Center in Salt Lake City has been ranked number 18 on
a list of the nation's best children's hospitals compiled by U.S. News and World
Report.

It received a top ranking for having a low death rate in three complex
procedures.

The magazine analyzed surgeries to repair a heart defect, remove a cancerous
brain tumor and transplant bone marrow. A hospital could receive up to 6 points,
depending on the number of procedures it completed and its death rate.

Primary Children's was the only children's hospital to receive the full six
points, it said in a statement Friday.

"This recognition . . . confirms something that we've known for years - that we
have one of the best children's hospitals in the country," said Joe Mott, chief
executive officer. "But we are most proud of our top ranking in lowest mortality
rates."

There were 122 U.S. children's hospitals that met the magazine's definition; 113
responded to its surveys and 30 were highlighted as top facilities.

The magazine's analysis of children's hospitals was expanded this year -
rankings were based on reputation, death rate, and care-related factors such as
the number of patients, the number of nurses and types of care available.

The hospital's ranking confirms the "high quality of care delivered at Primary
Children's," said physician Edward Clark, its medical director. He added, "We
are focused on 'the child first and always' and driven to provide the best
medical care available for children and their families."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      June 13, 2012 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospital Los Angeles Earns Top Five Ranking in the U.S. News & World
Report Survey of the Nation's Best Children's Hospitals

LENGTH: 801  words


New Delhi, June 13 -- Children's Hospital Los Angeles is moving up. For the
fourth year in a row, Children's Hospital Los Angeles has been named to the
elite Honor Roll of children's hospitals in the U.S. News & World Report
rankings released online today. This year, the hospital is ranked fifth in the
nation, up three places from last year's survey of Best Children's Hospitals.

"This recognition by U.S. News & World Report acknowledges that Children's
Hospital Los Angeles is a national leader in health care for children," says
Richard D. Cordova, FACHE, President and CEO, Children's Hospital Los Angeles.
"Our successful transition to our new $636 million, 317-bed inpatient tower, the
Marion and John E. Anderson Pavilion, is a testament to the resiliency of our
doctors, nurses, clinical staff and physician support team that helped to
contribute to this institution's top five ranking."

Only 12 children's hospitals in the United States achieved Honor Roll status for
2012-13, and Children's Hospital Los Angeles is the only hospital in California
to receive this recognition. The national magazine reviews children's hospitals
annually for their clinical quality and patient outcomes in 10 different medical
specialties and Children's Hospital Los Angeles was ranked high in all 10
categories, and its outstanding scores in six of those specialties placed it
among the top five nationally. The hospital has been selected to the Honor Roll
every year since this esteemed list launched in 2009, and Children's Hospital
Los Angeles has been named among the nation's best children's hospitals annually
since the inception of the magazine's rankings in 1990.

This year, the hospital equaled or improved its national ranking in six of the
10 categories compared to the 2011-2012 survey. The hospital achieved elite
Honor Roll status because it received exceptional scores in at least three
pediatric specialties. Children's Hospital Los Angeles rankings in all 10
specialty categories rated were: Cancer #5; Cardiology & Heart Surgery #8;
Diabetes & Endocrinology #7; Gastroenterology #7; Neonatology #7; Nephrology
#22; Neurology & Neurosurgery #18; Orthopedics #6; Pulmonology #14 and Urology
#12.

"Children's Hospital Los Angeles provides the best possible care for the
children in our community," says Cordova. "This is a reflection of the excellent
work of our Board of Trustees and our Safety and Quality Services Committee. In
addition, our philanthropic efforts contribute mightily to our success and allow
us to recruit the finest faculty and physicians to support our pediatric
research and clinical missions. This acknowledgement from U.S. News & World
Report is a tribute to all of their exceptional efforts."

When the new Marion and John E. Anderson Pavilion opened last July, the
inpatient tower was designed with a priority on family-centered care.
Eighty-five percent of the rooms are private and include accommodations so
parents can stay overnight comfortably with their child. The Anderson Pavilion
is among the nation's most advanced pediatric care facilities, and its opening
established a new era for the hospital that has been providing the highest
quality pediatric care to the community for 111 years.

In addition to Children's Hospital Los Angeles, the prestigious list of national
Honor Roll hospitals for 2012-13 includes: Boston Children's Hospital,
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, Texas Children's Hospital in Houston, Seattle Children's Hospital, Ann
and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Children's Hospital Colorado
in Aurora, Colo., Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, Children's
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Johns Hopkins Children's Center in Baltimore and
St. Louis Children's Hospital-Washington University.

The Best Children's Hospitals list pulls together clinical and operational data
from a lengthy survey, completed by the majority of the 178 pediatric centers
asked to participate in the rankings. This year, U.S. News required hard data
such as availability of key resources and ability to prevent complications and
infections. The survey also asked hundreds of questions about survival rates,
nurse staffing, subspecialist availability, procedure volume and many more
pieces of critical information. The data from the survey is combined with
recommendations from pediatric specialists on the hospitals they consider best
for children with challenging medical conditions.

The new rankings recognize the top 50 children's hospitals in 10 pediatric
specialties. Eighty hospitals are ranked in at least one specialty. U.S. News
Media Group, the parent of U.S. News & World Report, announced the hospital
rankings at 10 a.m. EDT on Tuesday, June 5 at:
www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 12, 2003 Friday

Sequoia receives excellent marks for its women's health services;
Obstetrics, cardiac and newborn-intensive-care units attract favorable review

BYLINE: STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: REDWOOD CITY


Sequoia Hospital is one of the best hospitals for women in California, according
to a new report.

Sequoia is the only Bay Area hospital that received a five-star ranking for both
obstetrics and women's health services from HealthGrades, which ranks hospitals
nationally. It's also one of 10 in California that got top marks for both
services.

Hospital President Glenna Vaskelis noted that HealthGrades recently rated
Sequoia as the No. 1 cardiac-services hospital in California; she said the
latest ranking highlights Sequoia's broad commitment to providing health care in
the community and "is a testament to our outstanding doctors, nurses,
technicians and administrative staff."

Roberta Greenspan, a Belmont woman who gave birth by Caesarean section at
Sequoia, said in a news release she wasn't surprised by the high ranking. A
person's first time in a hospital can be intimidating, she said, but the doctor
and nursing staff were skilled and attentive.

HealthGrades based the rankings for obstetrics on the volume of single live-born
deliveries, complication rates, presence of a newborn-intensive-care unit, the
preplanned first-time Caesarean section rate, and the newborn mortality rate.
Rankings for women's health services were based on coronary-bypass surgery,
valve-replacement surgery, interventional procedures, heart attack, heart
failure, and stroke mortality rates, and obstetrics.

Mills-Peninsula Hospital in Burlingame received three-star ratings -- meaning
the hospital's performance was "as expected" -- in both categories. Seton
Medical Center in Daly City earned a five-star ranking in obstetrics and a
three-star ranking for women's health.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers

                              105 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday

Scranton's Mercy Hospital ranked in the nation's top 50 best by independent
HealthGrades Inc.

BYLINE: James Haggerty, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 358 words


Mar. 2--A heath ratings agency lists Mercy Hospital of Scranton among the
nation's 50 best hospitals, ranking its patient outcomes among the top 5 percent
of medical facilities nationwide.

HealthGrades Inc., an independent organization that rates medical care and is
based in Golden, Colo., said the rankings track results from 5,000 U.S.
hospitals.

Mercy, which also was included in the rankings in 2009, is one of seven
Pennsylvania hospitals to receive the designation. Lehigh Valley Hospital near
Allentown, Easton Hospital and St. Luke's Hospital in Bethlehem also were
included.

"We're very proud of the distinction and the hard work of many dedicated
individuals," said Kevin Cook, Mercy president and chief operating officer. "I
would hope it's comforting for the community to know that nationally recognized
care is available right here in our community."

The designation is based on clinical results, including risk-adjusted mortality
and complication rates. HealthGrades issued the ranking after reviewing results
from about 130 million Medicare patient records from 1999 to 2008.

HealthGrades looked at results from 26 conditions and procedures, ranging from
bowel obstruction and respiratory failure to heart surgery and stroke.

Hospitals ranked in the top 50 had an average mortality rate 27 percent lower
than other facilities and a complication rate averaging 8 percent below others,
HealthGrades reported.

The organization also provides quality rankings, profiles and cost information
about physicians, nursing homes and prescription drugs.

Contact the writer: jhaggerty@timesshamrock.comMercy Hospital

--Has about 250 beds.

--Employs about 1,000 people.

--Network includes more than 600 doctors in 40 specialties.

To see more of The Times-Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thetimes-tribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Times-Tribune,
Scranton, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100302-YT-Scranton-s-Mercy-Hospital
-ranked-in-the-nation-s-top-50-best-by-independent-HealthGrades-Inc-0302

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                        Copyright 2010 The Times-Tribune

                              106 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 24, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Roper St. Francis Receives National Recognition for Quality Healthcare

LENGTH: 430  words


New Delhi, July 24 -- For the second consecutive year, Roper St. Francis (RSF)
has been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of the best hospitals in
South Carolina. Roper Hospital and Bon Secours St. Francis were included in the
annual U.S. News & World Report's 2013-2014 Best Hospitals rankings.



"We're committed to raising the bar in healthcare and ensuring our patients get
the best quality of care," said Roper St. Francis CEO David Dunlap. "This
recognition is encouraging as we push for the best patient outcome, every time.
We're humbled and pleased to be included in the list again this year."

Now in its 24th year, the U.S. News Best Hospital list recognizes hospitals that
excel in treating the most challenging patients. Hospitals are evaluated in 16
adult specialties. In most specialties, the list ranks the nation's top 50
hospitals and recognizes other high-performing hospitals that provide care at
nearly the level of their nationally ranked peers.

Roper Hospital is ranked no. 4 in the South Carolina and is high-performing in
the following specialties:

* Cancer

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

* Geriatrics

* Gynecology

* Nephrology

* Neurology & Neurosurgery

* Orthopedics

* Urology

Bon Secours St. Francis Hospital is ranked no. 6 in South Carolina and is
high-performing in the following specialties:

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

* Nephrology

* Orthopedics

* Pulmonology

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the rankings.

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

Earlier this year, Roper St. Francis was also named to the Top 15 Hospital
Health Systems list, compiled by Truven Health Analytics (formerly Thomson
Reuters) and published in Modern Healthcare. The Truven Health 15 Top Health
Systems study culled data from more than 300 organizations and singled out 15
hospital systems that achieved superior clinical outcomes based on a composite
score of eight measures of quality, patient perception of care, and efficiency.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

Akron Children's ranks in 2 categories in study

BYLINE: Vindicator, Youngstown, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 387 words


June 27--BOARDMAN -- Akron Children's Hospital has ranked in the top 50 of
children's hospitals in two pediatric specialties: urology and neonatology.

U.S. News & World Report, the global authority in hospital rankings, today
released the 2017-18 Best Children's Hospitals rankings. The 11th annual Best
Children's Hospitals rankings are a source of comprehensive, quality-related
information on U.S. pediatric centers.

The new edition highlights the top 50 centers in each of these 10 pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery, neonatology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

Akron ranked 35th in neonatology and 30th in urology.

"We congratulate our neonatology and urology teams for being ranked by U.S. News
and World Report for 2017," said Beth Smith, Akron Children's vice president for
marketing and public relations. "Several previously ranked specialties at Akron
Children's Hospital are not included on the list, and we'll definitely explore
the data more closely. The U.S. News yardstick changes every year and sometimes
it works in our favor and other times not, but our commitment to providing the
highest quality health care has been unwavering through the years."

In 2016, the hospital ranked in six categories: No. 46 for cancer; No. 32 for
diabetes and endocrinology; No. 24 in neonatology; No. 42 in neurology and
neurosurgery; No. 41 in pulmonology; and No. 41 in urology.

"We do not consider this in any way to be a reflection of success of those
programs nor do we design programs around the ever-changing methodologies of
various ranking entities," Smith said.

Hospitals ranking in the top 10 this year are: Boston Children's Hospital;
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia; Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center; Texas Children's Hospital, Houston; Johns Hopkins Children's Center in
Baltimore; Children's Hospital of Los Angeles; Ann and Robert H. Lurie
Children's Hospital of Chicago; Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus;
Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC; and Children's National Medical
Center in Washington D.C.

___ (c)2017 Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) Visit Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) at
www.vindy.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170627-YU-Akron-Children-s-ranks-in-2-categories-in-study-0627-20170627

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YU


                           Copyright 2017 Vindicator

                              108 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

Around the Valley: July 18

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 513 words


SAN GABRIEL VALLEY

Three area hospitals honored in rankings

Three area hospitals were listed this week in the 2012-2013 U.S. News Best
Hospitals rankings.

The three are: Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, City of Hope in Duarte,
and Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier.

Huntington Memorial was ranked 18th nationally in orthopedics and 49th
nationally in urology. It also was ranked high-performing in nine adult
specialties, according to a U.S. News release. It was also ranked the fourth
best hospital in the Los Angeles region and the eighth best in California.

City of Hope was ranked 23rd nationally in cancer treatment. It also was
high-performing in three adult specialties. And it ranked the eighth best
hospital in the L.A. area and the 14th best in California.

Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital performed nearly at the level of nationally
ranked U.S. News Best Hospitals in four adult specialties. It was ranked the
22nd best hospital in the L.A. region and the 34th best hospital in California.

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings feature data on nearly 5,000 hospitals.
The complete rankings can be seen athealth.usnews.com/best-hospitals .

BALDWIN PARK

Pedestrian killed on 10 Freeway

A Fontana man who was walking on the 10 Freeway in Baldwin Park was killed
Monday night when he was hit by two cars in a hit-and-run.

Ruben Haro Jr., 20, was walking south on the westbound No. 4 lane, the slow
lane, of the 10 Freeway just west of Frazier Street about 11p.m. when was hit by
a brown compact car, according to a California Highway Patrol statement.

The impact threw Haro into the air, and he was struck again as he fell to the
roadway by a 2008 Toyota Avalon that was behind the first car, the CHP release
said.

The driver of the second car, a 47-year-old El Monte man, stopped immediately
and called 911 at 10:57 p.m. to report the collision, CHP said. The driver of
the first car did not stop and was last seen traveling west on the 10 Freeway.

The reason Haro was walking on the freeway was not known and is under
investigation, CHP said.

Haro was pronounced dead at the scene at 11:17 p.m., the report said.

Three westbound lanes of the 10 Freeway were closed for about two hours during
the investigation and cleanup, CHP said.

The brown compact car and its driver have not been located.

CHP asked witnesses to call the CHP Baldwin Park office at 626-338-1164 or
323-982-4900 after hours.

AZUSA

Low-cost pet clinic to offer licenses, vaccines

Residents with pets will have the opportunity to get them licensed and
vaccinated at a low-cost clinic at City Hall on Wednesday.

Vaccinations will be available to Azusa residents from 6 to 7:30 p.m., for $10
to $22, depending on the vaccination. Pet licensing costs will be available for
$5 to $60, depending on the pet. A senior citizen discount will be available for
residents older than 60.

Residents of Azusa and unincorporated Los Angeles County will be able to get
their dogs microchipped for free at the event.

The clinic will be held behind City Hall. For more information, call
626-812-5200.

From staff reports

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Names Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas No. 1
in Dallas-Fort Worth Metro Area, No. 2 in Texas

LENGTH: 629  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- the Dallas-Fort Worth area and No. 2 in Texas for 2013-14
by U.S. News & World Report. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now
in their 24th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients.



"Being first in Dallas-Fort Worth affirms the engagement of the talented
physicians on our medical staff as well as the recognition of our caregivers who
work hard to provide a Christian ministry of healing to every patient," said
John McWhorter, D.Sc., president of Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas
and senior vice president of Baylor Health Care System.

Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas, which has been included in the U.S.
News & World Report rankings for more than 20 years, was ranked for 2013 in
seven medical specialties: gastroenterology & GI surgery (No. 16 in the nation),
nephrology (No. 18 in the nation), pulmonology (No. 22 in the nation),
orthopedics (No. 24 in the nation), gynecology (No. 32 in the nation), neurology
& neurosurgery (No. 36 in the nation), and diabetes & endocrinology (No. 38 in
the nation). The hospital is also high-performing in cancer, cardiology & heart
surgery, geriatrics, urology, and ear, nose & throat.

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

"It is a great honor to be acknowledged statewide and nationally for the
excellent care that our physicians, nurses and treatment teams deliver," said
Irving Prengler, M.D., chief medical officer Baylor Health Care System. "We are
honored to be recognized in these seven specialties and are thankful for the
dedication of all of our caregivers to patient care."

In its Metro Area Rankings, U.S. News & World Report gives consumers information
about high-performing hospitals in their backyard. This year, U.S. News & World
Report ranked three Baylor Health Care System hospitals: Baylor Regional Medical
Center at Plano, Baylor All Saints Medical Center at Fort Worth, and Baylor
University Medical Center at Dallas.

"Dallas-Fort Worth is an extremely competitive health care environment with some
of the most recognized health care organizations in the country," said Joel
Allison, president and CEO of Baylor Health Care System. "So we are certainly
honored and humbled for Baylor University Medical Center to be ranked No. 1 in
the metroplex and for two additional Baylor hospitals to also be ranked. This
recognition is a testament to the dedication of our talented, compassionate
caregivers."

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Press - Victorville (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday

Local hospital gets fourth place ranking

BYLINE: Daily Press, Victorville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 316 words


May 15--VICTORVILLE

--A recent evaluation by U.S. News & World Report ranked Desert Valley Hospital
fourth among a field of 41 hospitals in San Bernardino and Riverside counties.

Desert Valley Hospital tied for fourth place and was among eight rated as top
hospitals in U.S. News & World Report's first-ever Best Hospitals metro area
rankings. To be ranked in its metro area, a hospital scored in the top 25
percent among its peers in at least one of 16 medical specialties.

"All of these hospitals provide first-rate care for the majority of patients,
even those with serious conditions or who need demanding procedures," Health
Rankings Editor Avery Comarow said in a statement. "The new Best Ho s p i t a l
s m e t ro ra n k i n gs can tell you which hospitals are worth cons i d e r i n
g for most medical problems if you live in or near a major metro area."

Desert Valley performed nearly at the level of nationally ranked U.S. News Best
Hospitals in the adult specialty of pulmonology. It scored high in patient
safety, demonstrating commitment to reducing accidents and medical mistakes.
Desert Valley Hospital has 83 beds.

"This is another affirmation of the consistently high standards of patient care
that exist throughout the Prime Healthcare Services network of hospitals,"
stated CEO Margaret Peterson, Ph.D. "Desert Valley Hospital has a highly
qualified team of physicians, nurses, and staff who make patient care their No.
1 priority, as evidenced by our many awards and recognitions including the Top
100 Hospital in the Nation five times."

To see more of the Daily Press, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.vvdailypress.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Daily Press, Victorville,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110515-VV-Local-hospital-gets-fourth-place-ranking-0515-20110515

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VV


                           Copyright 2011 Daily Press

                              111 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Desert Dispatch (Barston, California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday

Local hospital gets fourth place ranking

BYLINE: Desert Dispatch, Barstow, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 317 words


May 15--VICTORVILLE

--A recent evaluation by U.S. News & World Report ranked Desert Valley Hospital
fourth among a field of 41 hospitals in San Bernardino and Riverside counties.

Desert Valley Hospital tied for fourth place and was among eight rated as top
hospitals in U.S. News & World Report's first-ever Best Hospitals metro area
rankings. To be ranked in its metro area, a hospital scored in the top 25
percent among its peers in at least one of 16 medical specialties.

"All of these hospitals provide first-rate care for the majority of patients,
even those with serious conditions or who need demanding procedures," Health
Rankings Editor Avery Comarow said in a statement. "The new Best Ho s p i t a l
s m e t ro ra n k i n gs can tell you which hospitals are worth cons i d e r i n
g for most medical problems if you live in or near a major metro area."

Desert Valley performed nearly at the level of nationally ranked U.S. News Best
Hospitals in the adult specialty of pulmonology. It scored high in patient
safety, demonstrating commitment to reducing accidents and medical mistakes.
Desert Valley Hospital has 83 beds.

"This is another affirmation of the consistently high standards of patient care
that exist throughout the Prime Healthcare Services network of hospitals,"
stated CEO Margaret Peterson, Ph.D. "Desert Valley Hospital has a highly
qualified team of physicians, nurses, and staff who make patient care their No.
1 priority, as evidenced by our many awards and recognitions including the Top
100 Hospital in the Nation five times."

To see more of the Desert Dispatch or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.desertdispatch.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Desert Dispatch, Barstow,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110515-DB-Local-hospital-gets-fourth-place-ranking-0515-20110515

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DB


                         Copyright 2011 Desert Dispatch

                              112 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday

Around Whittier: July 27

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 649 words


WHITTIER

U.S. News and World Report recognizes PIH

U.S. News & World Report announced Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in its
Best Hospitals rankings.

PIH is ranked number 22 among 140 hospitals in the Los Angeles Metro area, and
number 34 among the nearly 500 hospitals in California.

U.S. News & World Report's findings also noted that PIH performed well in the
specialty areas of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Nephrology and Pulmonology and
Ear, Nose and Throat.

This year's Best Hospitals, the 23rd annual edition, showcases more than 720 of
the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals.

Complete rankings and methodology are available athttp://health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals .

The rankings were published in collaboration with RTI International, a research
organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C. Highlights of the 2012-13
rankings will appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, to go on
sale in August.

WHITTIER

Whittier Museum sets annual flea market

The Whittier Museum is hosting its annual flea market from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Saturday in the Whittier Museum parking lot, 6755 Newlin Ave.

A member's only sale will take place from 6 to 8 p.m. today for members at the
$100 level.

The Whittier Museum is accepting flea market items until noon Friday.

For information, call 562-945-3871.

LA HABRA HEIGHTS

Dog Days of Summer set for July 28 at The Park

The annual Dog Days of Summer will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday at The
Park, 1885 Hacienda Road.

The free event sponsored by the city will feature agility demos, flyball demos,
sheep-herding demos, Frisbee demos, police dog demos, vendor booths, rescue
organizations, a low-cost dog washing booth, pet education booths, dog
photograph booth and sheep herding instinct testing.

A dog costume contest and dog trick contest will also be offered.

A weiner dog race will be held at 2 p.m.

For information, contact Krystal Emery, 562-694-8090 or
visitwww.petprescriptionteam.com/events.html .

WHITTIER

'Desert Waters' artist showing at the Framery

The "Desert Waters" solo show will premiere the latest work of California artist
S.J.W. Grogan beginning Saturday at the Framery Fine Art Gallery, 13105 Whittier
Blvd.

The show will run until Saturday.

Gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday.

An artist reception will take place from 4 to 7 p.m. Saturday.

For information, call the gallery at 562-693-5714 or visitwww.sjwgrogan.com .

WHITTIER

100 Gay Men and Aids Project dance Sunday

100 Gay Men and the Whittier Rio Hondo Aids Project presents Classic T dance
from 3 to 10 p.m. Sunday at The Bottle Room, 6741 Greenleaf Ave.

Live entertainment will be provided by deejay Randy Whitteker.

Proceeds will benefit 100 Gay Men.

For information, call The Bottle Room at 562-696-8000 or visitwww.100gaymen.org
.

WHITTIER

Rotary reviews United Nations Conference

Dr. George Prather and Dr. Judith Prather will address the Whittier Sunrise
Rotary Club at 8 a.m. Tuesday at the Friendly Hills Country Club, 8500
Villaverde Drive.

The doctors will present a review of The United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development which was held in June of this year.

The community is invited to attend, but reservations are needed due to limited
space.

There is a charge for breakfast which is served at 7:30a.m., but no charge for
the program.

For information, call 562-693-7674.

LA MIRADA

Donate used items to sheriff's volunteers group

Los Angeles County Sheriff Volunteers on Patrol serving La Mirada will host a
Goodwill Donation Drive fundraiser from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Aug. 4 in the City
Hall parking lot, 13700 La Mirada Blvd.

Donate new and clean clothing, housewares, furniture and other miscellaneous
items.

VOPS will receive money for every trailer full of donated items.

For information, call the La Mirada Community Sheriff's Station at 562-902-2960.

Send submissions for "Around Whittier" tonews.wdn@sgvn.com .

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

U.S. News & World Report says Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital among the
best

BYLINE: Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Business

LENGTH: 167 words


Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital has been ranked in six specialties in
U.S. News & World Report's 2014-15 Best Children's Hospitals rankings.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics and urology. This
marks the fourth consecutive year in which Penn State Hershey has been ranked in
multiple specialties. The hospital first made the Best Children's Hospitals list
in 2008.

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of 10 pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of sick children find the best medical care available, especially for
complex conditions. The rankings offer families an array of detailed information
about each hospital's performance.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Press - Victorville (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 26, 2007 Monday

ranking really means

BYLINE: Matthew C. Durkee, Daily Press, Victorville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 305 words


Mar. 26--VICTORVILLE -- Desert Valley Hospital is again running advertisements
touting its recognition as a Solucient 100 Top Hospital in the country, leaving
many to wonder how valuable the ranking is.

Although Solucient is a for-profit consulting fir m that contracts with
hospitals, Rick Wade, senior vice president of communications for the American
Hospital Association, says the benchmark is bona fide.

"My understanding is that, no, they do not take any money for their rankings."

The top 100 is divided into five groups: With 83 beds, Desert Valley is grouped
with 20 other small community hospitals.

Solucient's rankings are solely based on performance, namely, patient outcomes,
patient safety and "efficient care at a reasonable cost."

All non-federal hospitals that treat a wide variety of patients are evaluated.

In fact, Dr. Prem Reddy, chairman of Prime, says that the first time Desert
Valley made the list, they had no idea they were even being examined by
Solucient.

The most heavily weighted criteria are based on 21 "core measures" of treatment
for heart attacks, heart failure and pneumonia that are reported to the federal
government, but some hospitals don't submit all their numbers.

In the Victor Valley, only St. Mary Medical Center has all 21 core measures
reported. Desert Valley has 15 reported, and Victor Valley Community Hospital
has 10. Desert Valley did outrank St. Mary and VVCH in every core measure it had
numbers for.

Matthew C. Durkee may be reached at 951-6226 or mdurkee@vvdailypress. com.

Copyright (c) 2007, Daily Press, Victorville, Calif. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070326-VV-0326-ranking-really-means

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VV


                           Copyright 2007 Daily Press

                              115 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Central DuPage, Lake Forest hospitals ranked in 'Best Hospitals' list

BYLINE: , Daily Herald staff report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 266 words


Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital in Winfield and Northwestern
Medicine Lake Forest Hospital were among three Northwestern Medicine hospitals
that were recognized by U.S. News & World Report in its 2015-2016 ranking of
America's Best Hospitals.

Central DuPage Hospital is ranked 6th in both Illinois and the Chicago metro
region by the magazine.

Lake Forest Hospital is ranked 19th in Illinois and 16th in the Chicago metro
region, by the magazine's Best Hospitals Honor Roll,. Northwestern Memorial
Hospital in Chicago was ranked for the fourth consecutive year, ranking 11th in
the nation, 1st in Illinois and 1st in Chicago metro region.

The Best Hospitals Honor Roll highlights 15 hospitals out of nearly 5,000
nationwide for their expertise in treating the most challenging patients in at
least six medical specialties. Northwestern Memorial is nationally ranked in 13
out of 16 specialties, with top 10 recognition in six specialties.

Central DuPage Hospital's orthopedics program was once again recognized
nationally, ranking 36th in the country. Less than 3 percent of the hospitals
evaluated by U.S. News were ranked in even one specialty.

"We strive for excellence in all that we do and these rankings reflect our drive
as a growing health system to be among the best in the nation," said Dean M.
Harrison, Northwestern Memorial HealthCare's president and CEO. "We applaud the
talented physicians, nurses and staff who have earned this recognition. Their
exceptional efforts to provide the very best in high-quality patient care
supports our mission to always put our Patients First."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              116 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 7, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BARNES-JEWISH RANKS NO. 8

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 113 words


For the eighth straight year, Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis is listed on
the honor roll of U.S. News & World Report's annual ranking of the best
hospitals in the United States.

Barnes-Jewish tied with Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston for eighth place
in the rankings, which are to be released today. The rankings will be published
in the July 17 issue of the magazine.

No other area hospital made the honor roll, which includes 15 hospitals and is
based on physician surveys and medical data in various specialty fields.

Barnes-Jewish ranked fourth in the country in the area of respiratory disorders.
It ranked sixth in the area of kidney disease.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

                              117 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

HERE'S TO YOUR HEALTH City dominates list of America's top medical sites

BYLINE: BY RICH SCHAPIRO NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 692 words


Getting sick in New York City is a prescription for getting the best medical
care in America.

Three Manhattan hospitals are among the top 20 medical centers in the nation,
according to the 2016-17 rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News & World Report.

No other city has more than two hospitals ranked in the top 20.

"It has been our findings over many years that New York has one of the largest
populations of exceptionally good hospitals," said Ben Harder, chief of health
analysis at U.S. News & World Report.

At the top of the Big Apple heap is New York-Presbyterian Hospital Columbia.

The prestigious hospital with locations in Washington Heights and the Upper East
Side scored the No. 1 spot in the New York metro area - and No. 6 nationally.

New York-Presbyterian also ranked in the top 50 in the nation in a whopping 15
out of 16 specialties evaluated by U.S. News.

The hospital was ranked No. 2 in rheumatology, No. 3 in cardiology and heart
surgery, and No. 3 in neurology and neurosurgery.

Dr. Steven Corwin, New York-Presbyterian's chief executive, attributed its
success in part to the hospital's ability to attract top talent.

"We've got two great medical schools in Columbia and Weill Cornell that give us
terrific doctors, terrific faculty," Corwin said.

"We supplement that with a really keen focus on outcomes, quality and being
patient focused."

NYU Langone Medical Center snagged the No. 2 spot in the metro area and No. 10
in the nation.

The hospital on First Ave. near E. 30th St. landed in the top 50 in 12
specialties - including geriatrics, orthopedics, and neurology and neurosurgery.

Completing the trifecta among city medical centers making it in the top 20 in
the nation was Mount Sinai Hospital.

The Upper East Side medical center scored the No. 15 spot in the country and
received top 50 honors in 11 specialties, including cardiology and heart
surgery, and gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery.

The rankings were based on an evaluation of 4,553 hospitals in the U.S.

Factors used to compile the lists include survival rates, nurse-to-patient
ratios, safety procedures, complications and the reputation of specialists.

Reflecting on the performance of the top city hospitals, Harder emphasized how
well they scored in the medical specialties.

"Being anywhere in the top 50 in any specialty is a unique achievement," he
added.

"There are only 150 hospitals that can claim even one national ranking."

Several other New York-area medical centers also outperformed the vast majority
across the country.

New Jersey's Hackensack University Medical Center rated No. 4 in the metro area,
and ranked No. 42 in the U.S. in cardiology and heart surgery.

St. Francis Hospital in Long Island, rated No. 5 in the metro area, ranked No.
16 in the U.S. in cardiology and heart surgery, and No. 19 in gastroenterology
and gastro surgery.

And Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, rated No. 6 in the metro area,
ranked No. 22 nationally in diabetes and endocrinology.

Other city stars in the national rankings include what U.S. News & World Report
refers to as specialty hospitals: the Hospital for Special Surgery, which ranked
No. 1 for orthopedics and No. 2 for rheumatology; Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, which ranked No. 2 for cancer and gynecology and No. 5 for
urology; and the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, which ranked No. 10 in
ophthalmology.

NYU Langone Medical Center

#2 in New York metro area

National rankings

#10 Cardiology and heart surgery

#5 Geriatrics

#7 Neurology and neurosurgery

#5 Orthopedics

#10 Urology

#9 Rehabilitation

#8 Rheumatology

Hospital for Special Surgery

National rankings

#1 Orthopedics

#2 Rheumatology

More of the best hospitals

Mount Sinai Hospital

#3 in New York metro area

National rankings

#8 Cardiology and heart surgery

#7 Gastroenterology

#3 Geriatrics

Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center

National rankings

#2 Cancer

#2 Gynecology

#5 Urology

New York-Presbyterian Hospital Columbia

#1 in New York metro area

National rankings

#3 Cardiology and heart surgery

#5 Diabetes and endocrinology

#7 Geriatrics

#4 Nephrology

#3 Neurology and neurosurgery

#8 Pulmonology

#6 Urology

#3 Psychiatry

#2 Rheumatology

St. Francis Hospital

#5 in New York

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, [NYU Langone Medical Center] New York-Presbyterian Hospital
Columbia] [Hospital for Special Surgery] [St. Francis Hospita] JEFF BACHNER,
MARCUS SANTOS, ANDREW THEODORAKIS/DAILY NEWS; GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.

                              118 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              July 29, 2016 Friday

Medicare releases controversial quality rankings

BYLINE: Austin Ramsey, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 876 words


July 29--Newly released Medicare quality and performance ratings give Owensboro
Health Regional Hospital three out of five stars this week, putting the
acute-care medical facility in line with most state and national averages.

OHRH ranked below the national average in patient experience and efficient use
of medical imaging.

On a Medicare survey asking patients about their care experiences, the hospital
did not meet any state or federal benchmarks, something of which executive
officials with Owensboro Health said they have been aware. More up-to-date data,
they said, would likely reveal different results.

The Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS)
Survey is a patient perspective measuring device that Medicaid and Medicare
service providers are obligated to use. Past results have yielded unfavorable
results, said Debbie Bostic, chief operations officer and chief nursing officer
at OH. The health system, however, has acted quickly, she added, to develop a
series of hospital-wide teams charged with addressing problems in each HCAHPS
domain. She said she believes those teams are having a real impact on improving
patient experiences at the regional hospital.

If there are improvements, they may not yet be measurable. Rankings like these
are often two years old and based on a three-year rolling averages, said Michael
Scherm, OH Chief Medical Officer and executive vice president. They exclude more
recent developments the health system has made toward improving internal
experiences and communication.

"A great majority of these surveys are based on old data," Scherm said. "We're
more concerned with where we are now."

Imaging numbers suggest that OHRH may be performing too many unnecessary MRI or
CT scans for lower back and abdominal pain.

That's concerning, CEO Greg Strahan said. He doesn't want the public to think
the health system is making excuses for dissatisfactory results. The hospital,
he said, takes criticisms very seriously, and his staff is investigating the
cause of lower-than-expected imaging scores.

"If anybody is concerned about it, our leadership is because we know we provide
better care than most of the hospitals out there," he said. "We're trying to
figure out where this comes from. It could come down to one provider or a single
instance of care."

Internal results as recently as April, he added, do not indicate spikes in
instances of repetitious abdominal scans. Further analysis, hospital officials
said, is also needed to determine exactly what the percentage use of medical
imaging actually measures. It may be taking into account multiple image
contrasts, Bostic suggested.

In timeliness and effectiveness of care, however, OHRH earned scores well above
state and national averages.

The hospital has somewhat reshaped its emergency department to better serve
patients. According to Medicare standards, OHRH emergency service volume is
"very high" at more than 60,000 patients annually. With so many patients,
Strahan said the new hospital emergency room adjusts its staffing according to
live patient value. ED units, he said, are equipped with mid-level providers who
can act as preliminary screeners in serious cases, taking pressure from other
doctors.

Patients at the hospital spend an average 3.7 hours in the ED -- almost
three-quarters below the national average for high-volume patient hospitals.

The Medicare data came out to a storm of controversy Thursday. Many national
health care experts and members of Congress have been working to block the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid from publishing the rankings. They say the
numbers, which measure things like death and infection rates, along with patient
reviews, fail to take into account specialized hospitals and regional health
care markets in poorer areas. American Hospital Association President and CEO
Rick Pollack released a statement calling the new rankings "confusing." He said
they raise "far more questions than answers." Strahan echoed those comments.

Indeed, the way certain hospitals were ranked is puzzling parts of the industry
this week. Medicare bestowed only 3 percent of the nation's hospitals with
five-star ratings, and many top medical centers, like the Cleveland Clinic,
Massachusetts General Hospital and Stanford Health Care, fell short of that
mark. Meanwhile, lesser-known hospitals scattered around the country earned the
five-start status.

Regionally, only a handful of medical centers earned anything above three stars.
Methodist Hospital in Henderson, Twin Lakes Regional Medical Center in
Leitchfield and The Heart and Women's hospitals at Deaconess Gateway Hospital in
Newburgh, Indiana, all received four stars from the Medicare rankings, and
Memorial Hospital and Health Care Center in Jasper, Indiana, was the only
hospital within a 200-mile radius to earn five. In fact, no hospital in the
entire state of Kentucky earned a five-star ranking.

The Medicare rankings are available online at
medicare.gov/hospitalcompare/search.html.

Austin Ramsey, 270-691-7302, aramsey@messenger-inquirer.com, Twitter:
@austinrramsey

___ (c)2016 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160729-OW-Medicare-releases-controversial-quality-rankings
-0729-20160729

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2016 Messenger-Inquirer

                              119 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Muskogee Phoenix (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Web site of hospital rankings gives MRMC mixed reviews

BYLINE: Keith Purtell, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 831 words


Oct. 16--A Golden, Colo., company that has established a Web site ranking
hospitals, includes Muskogee Regional Medical Center, which was given mixed
results, depending on the category.

HealthGrades.com includes free and paid information. Data for this article is
from the free side of the site. The site organizes its free data by treatment or
disease.

Mary Martin, 59, said her decisions in choosing a hospital would be influenced
by this type of rankings but also by her personal physician.

"If I'm going to Dr. Robison for example, and I really trust him, and he is
affiliated with the local hospital, then I would probably go there," she said.

However, Martin felt strongly that there may be generational differences in
whose decision-making is influenced by a Web site.

"I have an older neighbor who doesn't use the Internet, and she is more likely
to go and talk to someone down the street to get their opinion," she said.

Rankings include:

--In the back and neck surgery category (except spinal fusion): MRMC and Saint
John Medical Center in Tulsa rated one star. Hillcrest Medical Center rated five
stars; and Tulsa Spine and Specialty Hospital, Oklahoma Surgical Hospital,
Southcrest Hospital and Saint Francis Hospital Inc. rated three stars.

--In the bowel obstruction category (survival): MRMrated three stars, along with
Seminole Medical Center, McAlester Regional Health Center, Jane Phillips Medical
Center and Eastern Oklahoma Medical Center.

--In the Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease category, MRMC rated three stars
for survival and one star for recovery, along with Integris Grove General
Hospital and Holdenville General Hospital. Seventeen eastern Oklahoma hospitals
rated three stars for both survival and recovery.

--In gastrointestinal surgeries and procedures, MRMC rated three stars, as did
the other nine hospitals listed in that category.

--In the heart attack category, MRMC rated three stars for survival, as did
Integris Baptist Regional Health Center and Haskell County Hospital.

--In the hip fracture repair category, MRMC and Claremore Regional Hospital
ranked a single star each. All other 13 eastern Oklahoma hospitals rated three
stars.

--In the stroke category, MRMC rated three stars for both survival and recovery.
Haskell County Hospital, Eastern Oklahoma Medical Center, Tahlequah City
Hospital, Integris Grove General Hospital rated one star each.

These are samples; other procedures and diseases are included on the site. Of
these sampled major categories, MRMC ranked a five three-star rankings and three
one-star rankings.

MRMC Chief Executive Officer Steve Mahan said he did not know enough about the
methods used by HealthGrades.com to comment on specific grades, but believes
more information is good for the public.

"My general attitude about all of those is that it is excellent," he said. "For
too long, consumers have not had good comparative information on health care
providers. While we are in the first stages of that, and it will get better, it
is a good first step. I think it's the beginning of even greater transparency in
health care."

Mahan said he's not worried about grading or ranking of hospitals hurting MRMC.

"As this information becomes more prevalent, I think consumers will use it more,
and yes, it could start affecting health care decisions," he said. "And that's
exactly what the point of it is. It's to protect the consumer and to reward
those who are providing high quality health care."

Mahan said hospitals located in higher socio-economic areas where people take
better care of themselves are likely to score higher.

HealthGrades.com gets its information from independent public and private
sources. For hospitals, the company utilizes information management and
statistical techniques to process and risk-adjust a large volume of patient
level data.

According to the company's Web site, they risk-adjust the data in order to make
valid and accurate comparisons between providers, taking into account that the
demographic characteristics of patients and the severity of patients' illnesses
may vary at different locations. This levels the playing field, for example,
between hospitals that treat sicker patients compared to those that treat
healthier patients, information on the Web site states.

Hospital ratings also use data from the most current three-year data set
available from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services and individual
states that make the data available.

Key to the stars

The star system used by HealthGrades.com:

--One star: Poor.

--Three stars: As expected.

--Five stars: Best.

To see more of the Muskogee Phoenix or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.muskogeephoenix.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20081016-XK-Web-site-of-hospital-rankings-gives-MRMC-mixed-reviews-1016

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XK


                                 Copyright 2008

                              120 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Mercy Hospital Clermont: U.S. News and World Report Ranks Mercy Health Hospital
Among the Best in Ohio for Second Year Running

LENGTH: 460  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- Mercy Health, which provides quality care with compassion
in your neighborhood through its network of care, announces that U.S. News and
World Report has named The Jewish Hospital -- Mercy Health among the best
hospitals in Ohio for the second year running.

"The dedicated team at The Jewish Hospital thrives on providing top quality,
compassionate care to every patient who enters our doors," said Steve Holman,
Mercy Health Central Market Leader and President. "This recognition underscores
the great care we provide across a wide spectrum of health concerns and I share
this honor with everyone at The Jewish Hospital who made it possible."

In addition to the regional recognition, U.S. News and World Report noted that
The Jewish Hospital -- Mercy Health is high-performing in the following seven
categories:

* Cancer

* Diabetes & Endocrinology

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

* Nephrology

* Neurology & Neurosurgery

* Orthopaedics

* Pulmonology

Earlier this year, the hospital became one of just 200 in the world offering the
latest advancement in incision-free neurosurgery with deployment of the Gamma
Knife, which uses radiation beams to target and remove tumors deep in the brain.
Its Blood and Marrow Transplant Center performed its 1600th lifesaving
transplant late last year. The hospital also boasts a premier total joint center
and the services of some of the city's leading sports medicine experts. Its
physician team is expert at treating diabetes and other endocrine disorders, as
well as digestive, kidney and lung ailments.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients. It evaluates
hospitals in 16 adult specialties.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

RTI International, a leading research organization, produces the specialty
rankings and data for U.S. News. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the
state and metro rankings.

U.S. News published the rankings at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
they will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook,
available in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 17, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

U-M Hospital Care is the Best in the State and Among the Best in the Nation,
Says New Ranking

LENGTH: 488  words


New Delhi, Sept. 17 -- The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
offer the best care in Michigan and some of the nation's best care, according to
a new ranking from U.S. News & World Report.



The results, released online today, mark the 18th year in a row that U-M has
been named to the honor roll of "America's Best Hospitals," this year with a
rank of 17th. U-M is one of only eight hospitals in the nation to make the honor
roll every year since 1995. In addition, 156 of U-M's physicians have been named
among America's Top Doctors in a database published on the U.S. News website.

U-M is the only hospital in Michigan on the national honor roll, which signifies
all-around excellence in multiple areas of specialized medical care. U-M earned
a high national berth in 14 ranked specialties, and was recognized as
high-performing in two others.

This is the first year for the statewide ranking, and the second year that
themetro Detroit ranking includes Ann Arbor. U-M is rated number 1 in both.

"As the only hospital that serves patients from every county in Michigan, and
many other parts of the country and world, we're proud to offer a high level of
care and expertise across many specialties," says Doug Strong, M.B.A., director
and chief executive officer of the U-M Hospitals and Health Centers. "There are
many ways to measure a hospital's excellence, and we are grateful to be
recognized in this ranking and others."

U-M ranked in the top 20 nationwide in seven specialties, and in the top 40 in
seven others. These include the specialty care at U-M's Geriatrics Center
(15th), Comprehensive Cancer Center (14th), Cardiovascular Center (22nd),
Comprehensive Diabetes Center (16th) and Kellogg Eye Center's ophthalmologic
care (13th). A full list is below.

The public can see even more evidence of U-M's top-quality care online at
www.uofmhealth.org/quality, where U-M offers data about the quality and safety
of a wide range of operations and other types of care. Such measures form the
basis for part of the U.S. News ranking, but the U-M site goes far beyond the
publicly available data that rankings are based on.

The U-M Hospitals and Health Centers are part of the U-M Health System, which
also has been recognized by U.S. News as having one of the nation's top medical
schools - tied for 10th in the country -- and top children's hospitals, with
C.S. Mott Children's Hospital ranked in all 10 specialties of children's care
that are measured.

U-M also earned an "A" patient safety grade and Top Hospital designation
recently from the Leapfrog Group, and has been named by IMS Health as one of the
nation's most integrated health systems, encompassing a broad range of services
for patients of all types.

The U-M Health System benefits by being part of a university with strong
graduate school rankings across the board in other areas, such as public health,
nursing, social work, engineering, business and law.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

SMH Ranks Among 50 'Best Hospitals' for GYN Services, #1 in Region for Overall
Quality & Care

LENGTH: 530  words


New Delhi, July 16-- Once again, Sarasota Memorial Hospital is the only local
hospital to make the grade on U.S. News & World Report's "Best Hospitals" list,
this year ranking #48 in Gynecology and recognized as "high performing" in six
additional specialties.



On a state and metropolitan level, U.S. News again ranked Sarasota Memorial #1
in the Sarasota-Bradenton region and #6 (up from #8 in 2012) among Florida's 265
hospitals.

Sarasota Memorial CEO Gwen MacKenzie attributed the national recognition to the
dedication and diligence its physicians, nurses and staff demonstrate every day.


"While we are certainly pleased with the rankings, our true source of pride
comes from the people who entrust us with their care," she said. "As the
region's only public and only safety net hospital, we are proud to set the
benchmark for high quality care in our community."

Each year, U.S. News evaluates the nation's 5,000 hospitals and ranks the top 50
in 16 adult specialties. U.S. News also recognizes "high-performing" hospitals
that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked peers.

In this year's study, in addition to the top 50 ranking in Gynecology, Sarasota
Memorial was recognized among the top quartile nationally for achieving "high
performing" status in the following six specialties (up from four last year):

Diabetes & Endocrinology (High Performer)

Gastroenterology & GI Surgery  (High Performer)

Geriatrics  (High Performer)

Nephrology  (High Performer)

Orthopedics  (High Performer)

Pulmonology  (High Performer)

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

Now in its 24th year, U.S. News publishes the Best Hospitals list to help guide
patients who need a high level of care because they face particularly difficult
surgery, a challenging condition, or added risk because of other health problems
or age. Objective measures such as patient survival and safety data, the
adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings
in most specialties. The U.S.News regional rankings cover 94 metro areas that
have at least 500,000 residents and at least one hospital that performed well
enough to be ranked.

About Sarasota Memorial



Sarasota Memorial Health Care System is a regional referral center offering
Southwest Florida's greatest breadth and depth of inpatient, outpatient and
extended care services, with more than 800,000 patient visits a year. Sarasota
Memorial's 806-bed acute care hospital has been recognized repeatedly as one of
the nation's largest, safest and best, with superior patient outcomes and a
complete continuum of outpatient services- from urgent care clinics and
physician groups, laboratory and diagnostic imaging centers, to home health and
skilled nursing & rehabilitation. Sarasota Memorial is the only hospital in the
Suncoast region (Sarasota, Manatee, Charlotte and DeSoto counties) ever to rank
in U.S. News' "Best Hospitals" list.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            June 19, 2013 Wednesday

HEALTH NOTES

SECTION: Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 309 words


WOLFSON'S RANKED IN U.S. NEWS SPECIALTIES

Wolfson Children's Hospital has been ranked in five of 10 specialties in U.S.
News & World Report's 2013-14 Best Children's Hospitals rankings.

Wolfson Children's Hospital ranked among the top 50 in diabetes & endocrinology;
neonatology; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology. Wolfson previously had been
ranked in the top 50 in three categories. The top 50 designations for
neonatology and orthopedics are new.

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007. Rankings
may be viewed online at health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings and
will be published in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
beginning in August.

ST. VINCENT'S WINS AD CAMPAIGN AWARD

St. Vincent's HealthCare's "Above. Beyond. Because." advertising campaign has
been named the winner of an Aster Award, which recognizes excellence in health
care advertising.

The St. Vincent's campaign, which included TV and radio spots, billboards, print
ads and Internet videos, was one of eight selected a "Judges Choice" winner from
about 3,000 entries.

PEDIATRIC SOCIETY ANNOUNCES AWARDS

The Northeast Florida Pediatric Society has announced its annual awards.

Florida Sen. Stephen R. Wise was given the "Pediatric Advocate" award.
Pediatrician Kenneth Horn of Baptist Pediatrics was named "Pediatrician of the
Year." Pediatric urologist Mark A. Barrazza of Nemours Children's Clinic was
selected "Pediatric Surgical Subspecialist of the Year."

Pediatric anesthesiologist Robert B. Bryskin, of Nemours Children's Clinic was
named "Pediatric Innovator of the Year." Neonatologist Mary O. Lim of the
University of Florida College of Medicine-Jacksonville was named "Pediatric
Medical Subspecialist of the Year." Pediatric resident Chantel Walker was named
"Pediatric Resident of the Year."

Compiled by Charlie Patton

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Florida Times-Union

                              124 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

National report: Area hospitals rank among the best in Ohio;
U.S. News recognizes Miami Valley, Kettering and Good Samaritan.;
HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By RandyTucker

SECTION: ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 539 words


Several area hospitals rank among the best in Ohio for patient care, according
to a U.S. News & World Report ranking.

The annual rankings showed Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton ranked highest among
local hospitals, showing up at No. 8 on the state list - up two spots from last
year.

Miami Valley was the only local hospital to be nationally ranked for adult
specialty care, coming in at No. 23 on the list of the best hospitals for
treating pulmonary disorders, or diseases involving the respiratory tract. Miami
Valley was also recognized as being a "high-performing" hospital in 14
specialties, including cardiology and heart surgery; gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery.

In addition to Miami Valley, three other hospitals in the Dayton-based Premier
Health network - Atrium Medical Center, Good Samaritan Hospital and Upper Valley
Medical Center - also ranked as high-performing in at least one area of care.
Good Samaritan also ranked No. 22 in the state.

"We're proud of the significant strides that all of our hospitals are making in
elevating Premier Health's high-quality care to the next level," says Mary
Boosalis, Premier Health's president. "We salute our physicians, nurses, other
clinicians, and all who support them for their work. This recognition from U.S.
News & World Report validates their efforts."

Kettering Medical Center, a member of the Kettering Health Network chain of
hospitals, was the next highest-ranked local hospital in Ohio, placing 17th out
of 215 hospitals in the state.

Kettering did not rank nationally in any specialty. However, Kettering was
recognized as a "high-performing" hospital in many specialties, including
orthopedics, heart failure, colon cancer surgery and knee replacement. U.S. News
also recognized Kettering's Fort Hamilton Hospital as high performing in
treating heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
specialties, and also recognized Sycamore Medical Center as high performing in
treating heart failure.

" We are so proud to receive this recognition once again," says Jarrod
McNaughton, president of Kettering Medical Center. "Quality is at the heart of
all we do and we are pleased that U.S. News & World Report has acknowledged our
commitment to quality patient care."

The Cleveland Clinic was the only hospital in Ohio to land on the U.S. News
"elite 20 Hospital Honor Roll," ranking No. 2 behind the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, Minn. The Cleveland Clinic was ranked nationally in 14 adult and nine
pediatric specialties.

U.S. News' best hospitals methodologies include patient survival, the number of
times a given procedure is performed, infection rates and adequacy of nurse
staffing. But the rankings are also based on the opinions of doctors, which
count for nearly a third (27.5 percent) of the U.S. rankings score.

The U.S. News rankings are just one of a number of different hospital rating
systems.

Last week, the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services released its Hospital
Compare report, which showed Ohio Valley Surgical Hospital in Springfield was
the only hospital in the Miami Valley to earn the top score in the government's
five-star rating system for patient care.

Contact this reporter at

937-225-2437 or email

Randy.Tucker@coxinc.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              125 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             August 3, 2015 Monday

Central DuPage, Lake Forest ranked among U.S. News' 'Best Hospitals'

BYLINE: Business Ledger news services

SECTION: BIZ LEDGER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 262 words


Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital in Winfield and Northwestern
Medicine Lake Forest Hospital were among three Northwestern Medicine hospitals
that were recognized by U.S. News & World Report in its 2015-2016 ranking of
America's Best Hospitals.

Central DuPage Hospital is ranked 6th in both Illinois and the Chicago metro
region by the magazine. Lake Forest Hospital is ranked 19th in Illinois and 16th
in the Chicago metro region, by the magazine's Best Hospitals Honor Roll.
Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago was listed for the fourth consecutive
year, ranking 11th in the nation and 1st in Illinois.

The Best Hospitals Honor Roll highlights 15 hospitals out of nearly 5,000
nationwide for their expertise in treating the most challenging patients in at
least six medical specialties. Northwestern Memorial is nationally ranked in 13
out of 16 specialties, with top 10 recognition in six specialties.

Central DuPage Hospital's orthopaedics program was once again recognized
nationally, ranking 36th in the country. Less than 3 percent of the hospitals
evaluated by U.S. News were ranked in even one specialty.

"We strive for excellence in all that we do and these rankings reflect our drive
as a growing health system to be among the best in the nation," said Dean M.
Harrison, Northwestern Memorial HealthCare's president and CEO. "We applaud the
talented physicians, nurses and staff who have earned this recognition. Their
exceptional efforts to provide the very best in high-quality patient care
supports our mission to always put our Patients First."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              126 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

MWH ranked 6th best hospital in Virginia

BYLINE: Amy Flowers Umble, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 479 words


July 16--Mary Washington Hospital has been named one of Virginia's top
hospitals, according to the 25th annual "America's Best Hospitals" report.

U.S. News and World Report releases the rankings each year, rating hospitals
according to patient survival rates, staffing ratios, safety measures and more.

Mary Washington Hospital ranked sixth among Virginia hospitals this year--up
from eighth place in last year's report--and fifth among Washington metro
hospitals.

It was the only Fredericksburg-area hospital to be named one of Virginia's top
21 hospitals.

"We're honored and grateful to again be recognized for our physicians', nurses'
and staff's exceptional work on behalf of citizens who seek care at Mary
Washington Hospital," Kevin Van Renan, senior vice president and administrator
of Mary Washington Hospital, said in a statement. "Our U.S. News rankings
recognize that our outstanding team treats each patient who comes through our
doors with the respect and dignity we'd give a family member, delivering the
highest-quality medical care available in a compassionate and safe environment."

The rankings are intended to help patients with more difficult cases find
hospitals that excel in various specialties. Mary Washington Hospital was
recognized for eight "high performing" specialties: diabetes and endocrinology;
gastroenterology and GI surgery; geriatrics; nephrology; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

According to the report, Mary Washington Hospital scored high in patient safety.

About 65 percent of the hospital's patients who responded to a survey last year
said they would recommend the hospital to a friend or family member. About 62
percent gave the hospital high marks for care; the state average is 69 percent.

The hospital also received high marks for courteous and respectful doctors and
for giving clear discharge instructions.

Sentara Norfolk General Hospital was named the No. 1 Virginia hospital in the
report. Inova Fairfax Hospital and the Virginia Commonwealth University Medical
Center received second and third rankings, respectively.

Those three hospitals were the only Virginia facilities to have nationally
ranked specialties. The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., was ranked the best
hospital in the nation.

"U.S. News strives to provide patients and their families with the most
comprehensive data available on hospitals," U.S. News health rankings editor
Avery Comarow said in a press release. "With an estimated 400,000 deaths
occurring in hospitals each year from medical errors, measuring safety
performance is critical to understanding how well a hospital cares for its
patients."

Amy Flowers Umble: 540/735-1973

aumble@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2014 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140716-FB-MWH-ranked-6th-best-hospital-in-Virginia-0716-20140716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2014 The Free Lance-Star

                              127 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Salem News (Beverly, Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Area hospitals ranked by U.S. News and World Report

BYLINE: Will Broaddus, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 298 words


July 27--THREE AREA HOSPITALS -- Beverly Hospital, Salem Hospital and Lahey
Clinic -- appeared in rankings that U.S. News and World Report publishes
annually.

Focusing on 16 medical specialties, the rankings used data from the federal
government and surveys of nearly 10,000 doctors to evaluate the quality of care
at 4,825 hospitals across the country. Figures for death rates, patient safety
and ratio of nurses to patients were considered.

Lahey Clinic, which is headquartered in Burlington and has a second facility in
Peabody, was among 140 hospitals that ranked nationally in one or more
specialty. In fact, Lahey, which was ranked fourth among the 77 hospitals in the
greater Boston area, ranked nationally in three specialties: 34th in diabetes
and endocrinology, 34th in gastroenterology and 22nd in urology.

Lahey was also listed as "high-performing" -- defined as "nearly at the level of
nationally ranked hospitals" -- in nine specialties: cancer; cardiology and
heart surgery; ear, nose and throat; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology;
neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; and pulmonary.

Beverly Hospital and Salem Hospital (North Shore Medical Center) were both tied
with several other hospitals at 16th in Greater Boston. Beverly was listed as
high-performing in gynecology. Salem Hospital was listed as high-performing in
geriatrics.

The U.S. News and World report rankings appear online at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/rankings.

To see more of The Salem News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.salemnews.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110727-ZS-Area-hospitals
-ranked-by-U-S-News-and-World-Report-0727-20110727

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZS


                         Copyright 2011 The Salem News

                              128 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 11, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Phelps Makes Top 25 in National Rankings of New York Hospitals

LENGTH: 179  words


Aug. 11 -- Phelps Memorial Hospital Center has been named one of the top 25
hospitals in New York State, ranking 16th  by U. S. News and World Report. In
the New York metro area, which includes New York City, Long Island, Westchester
County and Northern New Jersey, Phelps was ranked 18th. In addition, Phelps was
rated as "High Performing" for hip replacement and knee replacement. These
outstanding achievements are based on Phelps' track record of maintaining high
quality standards in delivering healthcare.

For more than 25 years, U.S. News and World Report has published its annual list
to help patients make well-informed choices about their healthcare.  These
reports and the quality data from which they are derived highlight hospitals
that perform best in specific areas of care. For Phelps, the 2015-16 regional
rankings took into account care performance in hip and knee replacement surgery,
heart failure and chronic lung disease.

U.S. News evaluated nearly 5,000 hospitals for their national 2015-16 Best
Hospitals rankings.

Source: Phelps Memorial Hospital Center

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Penn State Children's Hospital ranks among U.S. News & World Report's best

BYLINE: Staff report

SECTION: NEWS; Local; Business

LENGTH: 263 words


Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital has been ranked in eight specialties
its most ever   in U.S. News & World Report's 2015-16 Best Children's Hospitals
rankings.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, gastroenterology and GI surgery, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. This marks the fifth
consecutive year in which Penn State Hershey has been ranked in multiple
specialties. The Children's Hospital first made the Best Children's Hospitals
list in 2008.

The rankings come as no surprise to parents like Valerie Hester, whose
6-year-old daughter Savannah has been treated at Penn State Hershey since age 2,
when she was diagnosed with gastroparesis, a condition that does not allow the
stomach to empty, according to a news release from the hospital. After several
surgeries and office visits over the past four years, Savannah is wrapping up
first grade and looking forward to drawing, painting and playing outside this
summer.

"Their physicians and staff are like family," Valerie Hester said in the
release. "Their hearts are warm to the children. They care for kids both
physically and emotionally."

The U.S. News rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of 10
pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

The full rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals /pediatric-rankings.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UPMC AGAIN RANKED NEAR TOP

BYLINE: Steve Twedt, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 211 words


UPMC has been ranked 13th in the U.S. News and World Report's annual listing of
best hospitals for 2015-2016, marking the health system's 16th appearance on the
magazine's honor roll of best hospitals. UPMC was ranked 12th last year.

The list, released Tuesday, cites UPMC's top 10 ranking in six medical
specialties: ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology and GI surgery; orthopedics;
gynecology (Magee-Womens Hospital); psychiatry; and rheumatology.

Massachusetts General topped the list of best hospitals overall, followed by the
Mayo Clinic in Minnesota. The only other Pennsylvania hospital on the honor list
was the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, ranked ninth. The Cleveland
Clinic was ranked fifth overall.

U.S. News also listed best hospitals by region, with UPMC leading the local
rankings followed by West Penn Hospital in Bloomfield and Allegheny General
Hospital in the North Side, both part of the Allegheny Health Network.

U.S. News last month ranked Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC the
eighth-best pediatric hospital nationally.

In compiling the rankings, the magazine looks at 16 specialties, 12 of them
based on patient outcomes and other data and four based on physician survey
responses.

The rankings can be viewed at www.usnews.com/.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Steve Twedt: stwedt@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1963.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              131 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 22, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Moffitt Cancer Center Named to Becker's Hospital Review's 100 Hospitals, Health
Systems with Great Oncology Programs

LENGTH: 361  words


Aug. 22 -- Moffitt Cancer Center has once again been named to the 2016 edition
of Becker's Hospital Review's 100 Hospitals and Health Systems With Great
Oncology Programs. Moffitt has appeared on every version of the list, featuring
hospitals and health systems leading the nation in cancer care, since Becker's
Hospital Review began publishing it in 2012.

"It is a great honor to be on the Becker's list," says Moffitt President and CEO
Alan F. List, M.D. "This is a national barometer for those institutions that are
truly seeking to put the patient first in the care they deliver. This is an
ongoing priority for us, and we are pleased to be recognized among our peers."

Hospitals included on this list offer patients comprehensive cancer care
involving teams of specialists, participation in clinical trials and
personalized treatment programs. Many organizations on this list are driving
forces in the fight to end cancer as we know it.

This new ranking is just one of many accolades the cancer center has received as
it approaches its 30th anniversary. In early August, Moffitt was ranked No. 6 on
U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals for Cancer rankings. In March 2015,
Moffitt earned the prestigious nursing Magnet designation recognizing our
nursing excellence. Serving patients from all 50 states and more than 100
countries, Moffitt boasts patient outcomes that beat the national average.
Moffitt is one of 47 National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive Cancer
Centers and the only one based in Florida.

Additional accolades include the 2015 Working Mother 100 Best Companies national
list, No. 6 ranking on DiversityInc's 2016 Top 10 Hospitals and Health Systems
list, and the 2016 Leader in LGBT Healthcare Equality.

The Becker's Hospital Review editorial team selected hospitals for inclusion
based on recognitions received and accreditations earned. The editorial team at
Becker's examined U.S. News & World Report cancer care rankings, CareChex cancer
care rankings, Blue Cross Blue Shield Association Blue Distinction Center
designation and designations from the National Cancer Institute while compiling
this list.

Source: Moffitt Cancer Center

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday

Parkview prescribed national honor

BYLINE: Loretta Sword, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 486 words


July 24--Parkview Medical Center has gained national recognition in U.S. News &
World Report's annual rankings of the nation's top hospitals.

This year's edition includes more than 720 of the country's roughly 5,000
hospitals.

Parkview was singled out for high performance in four medical specialities:
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics and pulmonology.

Fewer than 150 hospitals are nationally ranked in at least one of 16
specialties.

The rest of the recognized hospitals met a "high performance" standard -- nearly
as demanding -- in one or more specialties.

Parkview was among those, and was the only hospital south of Denver recognized
for high performance in any specialty area, according to hospital spokeswoman
Michelle Peulen.

The report, released last week, also ranked Parkview in the top 10 hospitals in
Colorado and named one of the best hospitals in Southeastern Colorado.

The hospital also placed highly in the magazine's rankings last year.

"Parkview is extremely proud to achieve the recognition from U.S. News and World
Report again this year. The entire Parkview team -- employees, physicians,
volunteers and board of directors -- all played a role in enhancing patient
experiences which ultimately has led to Parkview being recognized nationally for
our efforts," said Parkview President and CEO Mike Baxter.

U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow said in a news release that the
rankings can be used to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in
the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges.

"All of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your
list when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals
send the toughest cases."

Baxter said the recognition is well-deserved by the physicians in each specialty
whose work also has won accolades from other organizations, including
HealthGrades, Leap Frog, and Avatar.

"As we worked to improve the local economy this story sends a great message that
folks do not need to drive north for health care and in fact, according to U.S.
News, this would not be a good decision," Baxter said.

Baxter said the recognition is a reflection of hard work among all Parkview
employees and associates, but he singled out "the front line staff."

"Without their effort and commitment to patient care, these recognitions do not
happen," he said.

The magazine's complete hospital rankings and methodology are available at
www.health.usnews.com/ best-hospitals.

The rankings were published in collaboration with RTI International, a research
organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C. Highlights will appear in the
U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, which will be available in August.

lorettas@chieftain.com

___ (c)2012 The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, Colo.) Visit The Pueblo Chieftain
(Pueblo, Colo.) at www.chieftain.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120724-PB-Parkview-prescribed-national-honor-0724-20120724

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2012 The Pueblo Chieftain

                              133 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Long Island Business News (New York)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

St. Francis rated top hospital on L.I.

BYLINE: Claude Solnik

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 588  words


U.S. News and World Report has ranked St. Francis Hospital as the best hospital
on Long Island followed by Stony Brook University Medical Center, North Shore
University Hospital and Long Island Jewish Medical Center.

The publication's rankings of "best hospitals", done in the 52 metropolitan
areas with the highest populations, have become widely watched by the health
care industry and consumers.

The rankings singled out 622 hospitals in or near major cities for a wide range
of criteria ranging from outcomes to reputation and quality in a wide range of
specialties.

To be ranked in its area, hospitals had to score in the top 25 percent among its
peers in at least one of 16 medical specialties.

"All of these hospitals provide first-rate care for the majority of patients,
even those with serious conditions or who need demanding procedures," says
Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow.

Hospitals often use U.S. News and World Report ratings, which have been done for
about 20 years, as part of or the basis for marketing campaigns, since the
magazine's imprimatur has caught on.

"It is gratifying to know that a third-party evaluation has put Stony Brook
University Medical Center in the top 10 hospitals in the New York metropolitan
region," said Stony Brook University Medical Center CEO Dr. Steven L.
Strongwater. "This validates the great effort put forth by our faculty, nurses
and staff to provide a consistent level of high quality care to our patients. "

St. Francis in Roslyn ranked first on Long Island and No. 7 in the New York
metropolitan area on a list of 66 hospitals in the region to get top ratings.

St. Francis ranked nationally in three adult specialties and was found to be
"high-performing" in seven adult specialties, as shown below. The 364-bed
hospital also scored high in patient safety.

Stony Brook finished 10th, followed by North Shore in Manhasset at 13, LIJ at 14
and Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola at 17.

Huntington Hospital in Huntington ranked 35th in a tie with John T. Mather
Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson and South Nassau Communities Hospital in
Oceanside.

Southside hospital in Bayshore ranked 48th and St. Charles Hospital in Port
Jefferson ranked 53rd.

New York City hospitals, meanwhile, took the top six slots in the New York
metropolitan area led by New York Presbyterian University Hospital Columbia and
Cornell.

The ratings, which appeared to favor large institutions, ranked NYU Langone
Medical Center second followed by Mt. Sinai Medical Center, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the Hospital for Special Surgery and Montefiore
Medical Center.

U.S. News and World Report uses a mix of outcomes and opinions to arrive at its
rankings and "Best Hospital" designations.

Mortality rate and reputation among physicians as the best in their specialty
for the most challenging cases and procedures each account for 32.5 percent of a
score.

Meanwhile, measures related to quality of care, such as patient volume and
nursing care, account for 30 percent.

Patient safety, which the magazine described as success in protecting patients
from accidents and medical errors, accounted for only 5 percent.

Rankings within a specialty aren't factored into scores. A No. 1 national
ranking in a specialty, for instance, didn't count for any more than a lower
ranking, within the top 25 percent.

"The No. 1 hospital in a metro area is not necessarily the best in town for all
patients," according to an article on the magazine's website. "Other hospitals
may outshine it in various specialties. "

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

UC San Diego Medical Center - Hillcrest: UC San Diego Health System Ranks #1

LENGTH: 760  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- UC San Diego Health System is once again ranked among the
nation's best in U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 "America's Best Hospitals"
issue. The magazine placed UC San Diego Health System #1 in the San Diego
metropolitan area with national rankings in 10 specialties-placing it among the
country's most prestigious institutions. UC San Diego Health System thanks its
employees for their extraordinary efforts.



"Being recognized by U.S. News & World Report as a top hospital both locally and
nationally reflects the extraordinary talents and expertise of our doctors,
nurses and staff. As the region's only academic health system, we are devoted to
offering an unparalleled quality of care and demonstrably superior clinical
results based on a philosophy of care that puts patients first," said Paul
Viviano, CEO, UC San Diego Health System. "Our vision for the community is to
create a healthier world -- one life at a time -- through new science, new
medicine and new cures."

U.S. News & World Report evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most
specialties, it ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other
high-performing hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their
nationally ranked peers.

For the 2013-14 rankings, 147 of the approximately 5,000 U.S. hospitals
evaluated were ranked in at least one specialty   UC San Diego Health System
ranked in 10, including: Cancer (#42 in the country in this specialty),
Cardiology & Heart Surgery (#42), Diabetes & Endocrinology (#29), Ear, Nose &
Throat (#48), Gastroenterology & GI Surgery (#31), Geriatrics (#20), Nephrology
(#17), Neurology & Neurosurgery (#42), Pulmonology (#9) and Urology (#22.)
Additionally, it ranked "high-performing" in gynecology, orthopedics, psychiatry
and rheumatology. These rankings mark the first time that Gastroenterology & GI
Surgery and Neurology & Neurosurgery have been ranked among the specialties.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty." U.S. News & World Report publishes the "Best Hospitals" issue to
help guide patients who need a high level of care because they face particularly
difficult surgery, a challenging condition, or added risk because of other
health problems or age. Measures such as patient survival and safety data, the
adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other objective measures largely determine
the rankings in most specialties.

In academic medical centers such as UC San Diego Health System, physicians and
scientists who teach medicine and conduct groundbreaking research work together
to bring the latest diagnostics, treatments, clinical trials and life-saving
care to patients. The doctors of UC San Diego Health System are also faculty of
the UC San Diego School of Medicine which is ranked 15th in the country in
research-intensive programs among 126 medical schools in U.S. News & World
Report's "America's Best Graduate Schools, 2012 Edition."

In 2016, UC San Diego Health System will open Jacobs Medical Center, the largest
new hospital project in southern California. The 10-story, 509,500-square-foot
expansion of UC San Diego Health System's La Jolla campus, will offer three
specialty hospitals including a Hospital for Cancer Care, Hospital for Advanced
Surgery and a Hospital for Women and Infants.

UC San Diego Health System was recently named one of the nation's 100 Top
Hospitals for the second time by Truven Health Analytics. In 2012, UC San Diego
Medical Center became one of the first Comprehensive Stroke Centers in the
nation. UC San Diego Health System has also consistently received an "A" rating
from The Leapfrog Group's Hospital Safety Score. The Leapfrog Group uses
publicly available data on patient injuries, medical errors and infections to
letter grade the safety performance of more than 2,600 hospitals nationwide.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News & World Report by
RTI International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle
Park, N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News & World Report produced the state and
metro rankings. The rankings have been published at health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals and will appear in print in the U.S. News & World Report's Best
Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday

BRIEF: Local hospitals among 'America's Best'

BYLINE: Jeremiah Dobruck, Daily Pilot, Costa Mesa, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 218 words


July 16--Hoag Hospital and UC Irvine Medical Center both made it onto this
year's list of "America's Best Hospitals" compiled annually by U.S. News & World
Report.

U.S. News creates the list by evaluating about 5,000 hospitals on 16 different
adult specialties, according to the publication.

By using factors like death rates, safety and reputation, about 150 hospitals
made it into the national rankings in at least one specialty.

Hoag, in Newport Beach, ranked in the top 50 nationally in orthopedics, coming
in at No. 49.

The hospital also performed well in nine other specialties like cancer and
geriatrics, according to the ranking.

U.S. News also proclaimed Hoag the No. 14 hospital in California and No. 7
hospital in the Los Angeles metro area.

UCI Medical Center in Orange made it into the top 50 hospitals nationally in
three different specialties.

The center was 30th for geriatrics, 47th for kidney disorders and 48th for
urology, according to the rankings.

U.S. News also ranked the center as the No. 9 hospital in California and No. 4
in the Los Angeles metro area.

Full rankings are available at the U.S. News & World Report website.

-- Jeremiah Dobruck

___ (c)2013 the Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa, Calif.) Visit the Daily Pilot (Costa
Mesa, Calif.) at www.dailypilot.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130716-1DP-BRF-Local-hospitals-among-America-s-Best-0716-20130716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1DP


                           Copyright 2013 Daily Pilot

                              136 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 21, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Englewood Hospital and Medical Center Named a Best Hospital by U.S. News & World
Report

LENGTH: 290  words


New Delhi, Sept. 21 -- U.S. News & World Report released its annual "Best
Hospitals" rankings this week and named Englewood Hospital and Medical Center a
Best Regional Hospital, ranking the Medical Center #5 in New Jersey and #18 in
the New York metropolitan area.



This year's "Best Hospitals," the 23rd annual edition, showcases more than 720
of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals. Fewer than 150 are nationally ranked in
at least one of 16 medical specialties.

Englewood Hospital and Medical Center was identified as high-performing in 10
adult specialties including in Cardiology & Heart Surgery, Diabetes &
Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, Gynecology, Nephrology, Neurology &
Neurosurgery, Orthopedics, Pulmonology and Urology. Additionally, Englewood
Hospital scored high in patient safety, demonstrating its ongoing commitment to
reducing accidents and medical mistakes.

"We are proud to earn this 'Best Hospital' distinction and to be recognized
among the best healthcare institutions in the state," said Douglas Duchak,
President and CEO of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center. "This recognition is
a reflection of the hard work, skill and dedication of our physicians, nurses,
staff and volunteers, and affirms our entire team's commitment to providing
patients and families with the best care possible."

The hospital rankings, said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow, are
like a GPS-type aid to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in
the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges. "All
of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL Edition

Maine Med included among 'America's Best Hospitals'

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 254 words


Maine Medical Center is among the nation's 50 best hospitals for orthopedics and
heart care and surgery, according to U.S. News and World Report.

The magazine's ''America's Best Hospitals'' report ranked Maine Med 45th for
orthopedics and 50th in the heart category. The ranking evaluated 5,462
hospitals in 16 specialties. Only 173 hospitals met the standards in one or more
specialties. Military and veterans hospitals were not included because the
needed data was not available.

Maine Med was the only hospital in Maine in the 2007 ranking.

Mortality rates, nurse staffing ratios and the availability of advanced services
figured largely for both of Maine Med's rankings, hospital officials said. The
availability of related patient services figured in the heart ranking,

The ratings were made available on U.S. News and World Report's Web site on
Friday and will be in the magazine issue that will be available Monday.

The evaluation included a host of factors. For most categories, including the
orthopedics and heart categories, the first hurdle was membership in the Council
of Teaching Hospitals, affiliation with a medical school or the availability of
certain advanced services. Only a quarter of the hospitals met those criteria.

Other considerations were whether the hospital treated a minimum number of
Medicare inpatients with certain conditions and whether the hospital ranked
among the best in a specialty in physician surveys.

Reputation, death rate and data that gives insight into patient care were also
factors.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Hospitals in Whittier, Pasadena score big on patient survey

BYLINE: By Daniel Tedford, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 493 words


New rankings released by Consumer Reports magazine reviewing patient
satisfaction have two area hospitals in the top 10 out of 145 Southern
California medical facilities.

At the same time, two area hospitals languish at the bottom of the list,
according to the rankings.

Compared with other hospitals in Ventura, San Diego, San Bernardino, Riverside,
Orange and Los Angeles counties, Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in
Whittier ranked fourth with an 83 consumer rating - first overall in Los Angeles
County. Huntington Hospital in Pasadena ranked sixth in Southern California.

"I think it is the hospital culture. We have a good working relationship with
all of our teams," PIH Chief Nursing Officer Reanna Thompson said. "We listen to
their feedback. I think giving the people at the front line a voice on things
that need to be done ... is really the key to having an engaged work force. The
patients sense that."

Despite being a well-known hospital that many people choose, Huntington
officials are still pleased to see such results. The facility has the only
trauma center at a community hospital in the San Gabriel Valley, so keeping
patient satisfaction high isn't easy, volunteer and Customer Services Director
Priscilla Gamb said.

"It is a challenge (to maintain patient satisfaction)," Gamb said. "Every
department has specific service goals that they work on throughout the entire
year. It is a hospital-wide effort."

The rankings are based on a quarterly federal survey of more than 1 million
hospital patients across the nation, the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems, or HCAHPS.

The survey asks patients about recent hospital experiences regarding doctor and
nurse communication, cleanliness and noise in hospital rooms, and discharge
information and medication.

Consumer Reports took the data and had statisticians put them into a ranking.

East Valley Hospital in Glendora was the third worst in Southern California and
Whittier Hospital Medical Center was the sixth worst, according to the rankings.

Officials from East Valley Hospital did not immediately return messages seeking
comment.

At Whittier Hospital Medical Center, officials believe reviews are going to
change.

The proper nursing leadership wasn't in place in the past, but with a new chief
nursing officer since August 2008, the culture of the hospital is improving, CEO
Howard Ternes said.

"I will be honest with you. This hospital has suffered for several years,"
Ternes said. "We haven't had a strong nurse leader in 10 years until we hired
Phyllis (Snyder)."

Since she came on, Snyder has tried to address trouble areas, specifically
communication between nurses and patients, Ternes said.

"It becomes routine after a while. We don't realize there is a gap between what
the patient expects and what we expect," Ternes said. "If you improve the
communication with patients, problems get solved automatically."

daniel.tedford@sgvn.com

(626) 962-8811, Ext. 2730

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Sarasota Memorial lands prime spot on hospital list

BYLINE: Staff Report

SECTION: B; ARCHIVES; Pg. BNV03

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


SARASOTA

Sarasota Memorial Hospital has improved its national ranking in the latest U.S.
News & World Report survey of "best hospitals," collecting the fifth-highest
overall score in the state and the highest for Southern Florida.

No other Southwest Florida hospital made the Top 50 lists that cover 16 medical
specialties, or was cited as performing as well in any specialty.

Because the publication is not part of the health care industry, its rankings --
which rely on data that includes patient survival and nurse staffing levels --
are considered more prestigious than other annual reviews.

The publisher says they are intended to guide patients who need the highest
available level of care because of challenging conditions.

Sarasota Memorial achieved a national ranking of No. 30 in gynecology, up from
48 last year, and was listed as "high performing" in eight specialties: cancer,
diabetes, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, nephrology, orthopedics,
pulmonology and urology.

This year's top hospital in the country is the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minnesota. No Florida hospitals made the "honor roll" of 17 leading hospitals
nationwide.

No. 1 among Florida's 265 hospitals is Florida Hospital Orlando, with Tampa
General Hospital in second place.

Moffitt Cancer Center, the only other nationally ranked hospital in the Tampa
Bay area, was ranked No. 6 in the state overall.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sarasota Memorial achieved a national ranking of No. 30 in gynecology,
up from 48 last year, and was listed as "high performing" in eight specialties:
cancer, diabetes, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, nephrology,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. STAFF PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 10, 2007 Wednesday

Eugenio Litta earns national ranking

BYLINE: Jeff Hansel, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 547 words


Jan. 10--Ready or not, here comes the limelight.

Who should take a bow?

Pediatric nurses at Mayo Eugenio Litta Children's Hospital.

Surgeons, nurses and care providers at Eugenio Litta have been under the
watchful eyes of the nation this month as they completed a 99-day journey to
separate identical twins Abby and Maddy Fitterer, who were born conjoined on
Aug. 8.

"Mayo is really well known for overall care," Mayo spokesman Lee Aase said after
the successful surgery. "But the pediatric emphasis has probably not been as
widely appreciated. I think that helped raise the profile in the pediatric
area." Now, Eugenio Litta has another feather in its cap.

The hospital has been ranked 38th among children's hospitals by the National
Association of Children's Hospitals and Related Institutions.

Eugenio Litta, housed inside Saint Marys Hospital, had not had much national
attention in the past.

However, three high-profile cases have come to the 85-bed hospital since early
2006. Each family needed separation surgery for conjoined twins. Eugenio Litta's
new ranking is listed in the current issue of Child Magazine (Child.com). The
magazine carries stories about children's fashion, health, safety, education and
nutrition.

No. 38 might not seem weighty enough to merit bells and whistles, but a total of
116 hospitals were surveyed.

Of the more than 250 children's hospitals in the country, "only a certain
portion of them even qualify to receive a survey," said Karen Cicero, senior
editor at Child Magazine, and author of an article in the current issue that
describes the rankings.

"If you think of it in terms of the total number of children's hospitals in the
country, it's even more impressive," she said.

"We're thrilled about the survey. It's actually driven by data," said Dr. Phil
Fischer, medical director of Eugenio Litta. Staff at the children's hospital
would, of course, like to highlight something closer to the top of the list. But
that's not the most important thing.

"We really care more about taking care of patients than we do about things like
rankings," Fischer said.

According to Cicero, that focus on patient care is one of the reasons Mayo
ranked higher than 78 out of the other 115 children's hospitals surveyed
nationwide.

What was the main factor that played into Eugenio Litta's ranking?

"I think one of their strongest areas, actually, is their nursing care," Cicero
said. Pediatric nurses there are highly trained, most with bachelor's degrees or
higher; retention rates are good; and there's a low vacancy rate. Also, a large
percentage of nurses are trained in pediatric advanced life support, Cicero
said.

All charge nurses, or supervisory nurses, and most floor nurses have completed
PALS training, Fischer noted.

"It's a good step forward for Children's Hospital, and we're thrilled to be
ranked as favorably as we were," he said.

What's next?

Fischer said the hospital plans to continue improving patient care. If the score
also improves, so be it.

Copyright (c) 2007, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070110-RC-0110-Eugenio-Litta-earns-national-ranking

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2007 Post-Bulletin

                              141 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 14, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital Ranked Among Nation's Best

LENGTH: 459  words


New Delhi, June 14 -- UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital ranks among the nation's
best children's hospitals in nine specialties and is one of the top-ranked
centers in California, according to the 2013-2014 Best Children's Hospitals
survey conducted by the U.S. News Media Group.

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of the following
pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. UCSF Benioff
Children's Hospital earned its highest rankings in the specialties of diabetes
and endocrinology, nephrology, cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, and
gastroenterology.

UCSF is one of the top pediatric facilities in California, and the top Northern
California children's hospital in cancer, diabetes and endocrinology, and
neurology, according to the rankings.

"As San Francisco's only children's hospital, we are proud of our team of
dedicated clinicians who continually strive to lead the way in providing
world-class quality care to children and families," said Kimberly Scurr,
executive director of UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital. "We look forward to
expanding our services in 2015, with the opening of a brand new,
state-of-the-art children's hospital in Mission Bay."

The survey methodology is based on a three-part blend of reputation, medical
outcomes and care-related indicators such as patient volume, nurse staffing,
clinical support services and other factors. Hospitals were judged on a
combination of opinions from pediatric specialists about the hospitals they
would recommend for the sickest children and data gathered in a lengthy survey
covering a range of important medical information.

This year, UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital's ranking improved in every
specialty, due in part to two significant milestones. In 2012, the hospital
implemented of one of the most comprehensive electronic health records systems
in the United States. Additionally, the hospital was awarded the prestigious
Magnet designation for excellence in nursing by the American Nurses
Credentialing Center.

"The excellent patient care at UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital is underscored
by its commitment to the research conducted by our outstanding
physician-scientists who translate laboratory discoveries into effective
treatments for patients, and to educating the future physicians who care for our
children," said Donna Ferriero, MD, physician-in-chief of UCSF Benioff
Children's Hospital.

The complete list of children's hospital rankings is available online, and will
be published in the upcoming Best Hospitals print guide, published by U.S. News,
available on newsstands Aug. 27.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

Three area hospitals make U.S. News list of best hospitals

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 255 words


Three area hospitals were listed this week in the 2012-2013 U.S. News Best
Hospitals rankings.

The three are: Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, City of Hope in Duarte,
and Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier.

Huntington Memorial was ranked 18th nationally in orthopedics and 49th
nationally in urology. It also was ranked high-performing in nine adult
specialties, according to a U.S. News press release.

Huntington Memorial was ranked the fourth best hospital in the Los Angeles
region and the eighth best in California, according to U.S. News.

City of Hope was ranked 23rd nationally in cancer treatment. It also was
high-performing in three adult specialties.

City of Hope was ranked the eighth best hospital in the L.A. area and the 14th
best in California.

Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital performed nearly at the level of nationally
ranked U.S. News Best Hospitals in four adult specialties, diabetes and
endocrinology, in ear, nose and throat, in nephrology, and in pulmonology.

PIH was ranked the 22nd best hospital in the L.A. region and the 34th best
hospital in California.

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 23rd year, feature data on
nearly 5,000 hospitals across the country and 16 medical specialties, according
to U.S. News..

The rankings are based largely on objective measures of hospital performance,
such as patient survival rates, and structural resources, such as nurse staffing
levels, according to U.S. News.

The complete rankings can be seen athealth.usnews.com/best-hospitals .

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 998 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                             July 20, 2013 Saturday

Lgh Leads Area Hospitals In Rankings

SECTION: B; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 356  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Area hospitals made the annual U.S. News "Best Hospitals" lists in several
categories.

Lancaster General Hospital was ranked nationally in four specialties and ranked
sixth in the state overall on the lists, which the magazine released recently.

Lancaster Regional Medical Center was ranked 34th in the state.

In the region, Penn State Hershey Medical Center was ranked 16th in the state
and the Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital was nationally ranked in five
specialties.

In addition to their spots on the state list, hospitals' rankings included:

LGH, at 555 N. Duke St., ranked among the nation's top 50 hospitals in: diabetes
and endocrinology (17th); orthopedics (40th); gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery (46th); and cardiology and heart surgery (50th).

LGH also ranked as "high performing" in six specialties: cancer, geriatrics,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.

Regional, at 250 College Ave., ranked as "high performing" in orthopedics.

Penn State Hershey Medical Center ranked as "high performing" in 11 specialties:
cancer; cardiology and heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and
throat; gastroenterology and gastro-intestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology;
nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; and urology.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked nationally among the top 50
children's hospitals in five specialties: cancer (35th); neurology and
neurosurgery (35th); urology (35th); orthopedics (39th); and cardiology and
heart surgery (44th).

The rankings, which are updated every July, are grouped into 16 individual
specialty lists.

Twelve of the 16 include the 50 top-scoring hospitals, based mostly on death
rates for the most demanding cases, patient safety and other categories of
performance that can be weighed with hard data.

The rankings also factor in a physician survey, which asks doctors to name
hospitals they consider the best in their specialty for difficult cases.

While unranked nationally, hospitals with four scores within the top 25 percent
of the range in a given specialty are recognized as "high performing" in the
specialty.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Suburban hospitals ranked among best by U.S. News

BYLINE: By Anna Marie Kukec, Daily Herald Business Writer akukec@dailyherald.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 690 words


While several suburban hospitals Tuesday ranked among the best when U.S. News
and World Report released its 2014-2015 Best Hospitals list, experts viewed it
as just a small part of how patients should make a decision when choosing a
hospital to treat cancer, diabetes, and other diseases or conditions.

Consumers are encouraged to look at a variety of surveys and sources before
selecting a hospital for treatment, said Danny Chun, spokesman for
Naperville-based Illinois Hospital Association.

Chun said some reliable sources include Hospital Compare, from the U.S. Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and the Illinois Hospital Report Card and
Consumer Guide to Health Care from the Illinois Department of Public Health.

"Consumers should not rely on any one set of ratings," Chun said. "They should
consult multiple sources and talk to their doctor for information on best
practices."

There is no "one-rating-fits-all" approach to selecting a good hospital, Chun
said. He declined to comment on the U.S. News & World Report rankings.

On Tuesday, a number of health care systems quickly touted their rankings on the
U.S. News listings. U.S. News looked at 16 specialties and ranked the top 50 in
most of the specialties. About 3 percent of the nearly 5,000 hospitals that were
analyzed earned national ranking in one specialty. And high-ranking hospitals
quickly touted this as a badge of honor.

Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago was among the top 10 nationwide.

Also, five hospitals within the Downers Grove-based Advocate Health Care system
were among the top 25 hospitals in the area: Advocate Christ Medical Center in
Oak Lawn at No. 3, Advocate Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge at No. 7,
Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center on Chicago's North Side at No. 9,
Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove at No. 14 and Advocate Good
Shepherd in Barrington at No. 23.

In addition, Alexian Brothers Health System's St. Alexius Medical Center in
Hoffman Estates ranked No. 5 and Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove
Village was No. 7 in the region.

Among suburban hospitals, Cadence Health-Central DuPage Hospital in Winfield
ranked No. 9, Northwest Community in Arlington Heights ranked No. 12 and Edward
Hospital in Naperville ranked No. 15.

As for specialties, Northwest Community was No. 44 for nose and throat care, St.
Alexius was No. 22 for gastroenterology, and Central DuPage was No. 28 for
orthopedics.

It is difficult to determine if high rankings on such a list would eventually
translate into financial gain for the hospitals. Instead, the rankings
contribute more to feelings of pride and recognition, said St. Alexius CEO Len
Wilk.

"Over the past five years, we've see more patients coming in with a better
understanding of patient safety and quality care," Wilk said. "But there is
still a reliance on community reputation. This is a very well-known listing, and
it encompasses a lot for us."

The hospital uses such rankings to focus on what they're doing well and what
they can do even better, especially with best practices and reliability of the
system, said Wilk.

"It's a never-ending journey to get better and better," Wilk said.

The listing "reflects the dedication and teamwork of our physicians, nurses,
other medical professionals and associates, who are committed to consistently
delivering advanced, high-quality care to the patients and communities we
serve," Mark A. Frey, president and chief executive officer of Alexian Brothers
Health System said in a statement.

Advocate Lutheran General also viewed the U.S. News ranking as a boost of
confidence in the community and not something that could lead to financial gain,
said President Rick Floyd.

"It's hard to know if patients come here based on the survey. We'd have to ask
everyone who comes through our registration," said Floyd. "But there are a
number of these rankings and they provide more and more data, and that just
helps promote more confidence and trust when consumers are faced with serious
health issues. They may even be willing to travel farther to us."

*Daily Herald Staff Writer Jamie Sotonoff contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Daily Herald file photo
 Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove Village. DAILY HERALD FILE PHOTO
Alexian Brothers Hospital in Elk Grove Village is tied for U.S. News and World
Report's 7th-best hospital in the Chicago area.George
LeClaire/gleclaire@dailyherald.com Dr. Bradley Shapiro checks Sue Erb of Hanover
Park before a procedure on her at St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates
as nurse Deborah Thompson checks and records vital signs.George
LeClaire/gleclaire@dailyherald.com Dr. Bradley Shapiro checks Sue Erb of Hanover
Park before he performs a procedure on her at St. Alexius Medical Center in
Hoffman Estates as nurse Deborah Thompson checks and records vital signs. St.
Alexius is U.S. News and World Report's 5th-best hospital in the Chicago area.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              145 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register(Springfield, IL)

                             July 14, 2001 Saturday

Magazine rates St. John's Hospital among top 50 for cancer treatment

BYLINE: TONY CAPPASSO STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 387 words


The cancer center at St. John's Hospital in Springfield beat out Barnes-Jewish
Hospital in St. Louis in rankings that will appear in U.S. News & World Report.

The rankings come out in the weekly newsmagazine's July 23 issue.

Overall, St. John's Hospital Cancer Institute ranked 44 out of the top 50
hospitals in the United States for cancer care, according to the magazine.
Barnes-Jewish Hospital was No. 46 on the list.

This is the first time a Springfield hospital has made the magazine's annual
listing, according to St. John's officials.

"We are very pleased and proud to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report,"
St. John's executive vice president Dick Carlson said at a press conference
Friday.

"This ranking is a tribute to the physicians and hospital staff. Our cancer
program has had a long history of excellence in central Illinois, and this
recognition verifies that record."

Exactly how the magazine arrived at its ranking wasn't clear because the
information was not available Friday. In general, however, the magazine's
reporters studied data from 6,116 hospitals nationwide. The method they used
came from the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago.

To be eligible for ranking, hospitals must either belong to the Council of
Teaching Hospitals, be affiliated with a medical school or have at least nine of
17 technology services for treating cancer, according to St. John's.

Those criteria narrowed the field of candidate hospitals to 1,878 this year.
From that group, the magazine chose 168 hospitals that treat cancer in 17
specialty areas.

The top five cancer hospitals in the United States, according to U.S. News &
World Report, are the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City;
the University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston; Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore; the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston; and the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester, Minn.

In Illinois, St. John's outranked Lutheran General Healthsystem in Park Ridge
and Cook County Hospital in Chicago. The state's top-ranked cancer centers were
University of Chicago Hospitals, at No. 7; and F.G. McGaw Hospital at Loyola
University in Maywood, ranked 37.

Last year, St. John's earned rankings among the top 100 in orthopedic, heart and
stroke care.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ON WEB SITE

                   Copyright 2001 The State Journal-Register

                              146 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                             July 9, 2005 Saturday
                                  ALL EDITION

Sarasota Memorial among best in U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN HEYS john.heys@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 232 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


Sarasota Memorial Hospital is among the nation's best in a ranking by U.S. News
and World Report magazine.

The 828-bed facility was ranked among the top 50 hospitals in seven different
medical specialties.

"It puts us at the top of the list for community hospitals," said Dr. Bruce
Fleegler, Sarasota Memorial's chief medical officer.

The annual list appears in this week's issue of U.S. News.

Hospital officials credited SMH's doctors, nurses and staff for the high
rankings.

The magazine looked at 17 specialties at 6,007 medical centers across the
country. The rankings are based on a hospital's reputation, mortality rate and
care-related factors such as nursing and patient services.

The listings include the 50 highest scoring hospitals in each specialty.

Sarasota Memorial was ranked for its performance in the following specialties:
cancer; digestive disorders; ear, nose and throat; geriatrics; heart and heart
surgery; orthopedics; and urology.

Patients pay attention to the rankings, said Jan Mauck, the hospital's chief
nursing officer, especially those from outside the area looking for specialty
care.

Other Florida hospitals making the list: Tampa General Hospital, the Bascom
Palmer Eye Institute in Miami, Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Florida
Hospital in Orlando, the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute in
Tampa and St. Vincent's Medical Center in Jacksonville.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.

                              147 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Huntsman ranked 47th in nation for cancer hospitals

LENGTH: 541 words


By Daphne Chen

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Huntsman Cancer Institute made the list of top 50 cancer
hospitals in a national ranking of medical facilities released by U.S. News &
World Report on Tuesday.

Although none of Utah's medical facilities cracked the U.S. News & World
Report's "honor roll" of the nation's top 20 hospitals, University Hospital was
named the No. 1 overall hospital in the state because of "high performing"
scores in specialties like neurology, cardiology and nephrology.

Intermountain Medical Center was ranked No. 2 in the state. Dixie Regional
Medical Center and Utah Valley Hospital (formerly known as Utah Valley Regional
Medical Center) tied for No. 3.

Mary Beckerle, CEO and director of Huntsman Cancer Institute, said the hospital
is "extremely pleased" by the recognition.

"Cancer touches the lives of everyone, and this recognition reflects our efforts
to relieve the burden of this disease on our patients and their families through
excellent patient care and robust scientific research," Beckerle said in a
statement.

Critics have criticized the U.S. News & World Report rankings for being flawed -
more useful for hospital marketing teams than for consumers.

Jill Vicory, spokeswoman at the Utah Hospital Association, cautioned that
patients should use the rankings as just one of many tools when choosing a
health care provider.

"Unfortunately, too many hospital ratings systems using too many differing
approaches have cluttered the environment," Vicory said in a statement. "We
encourage consumers to talk with their physicians, consider their insurance
coverage as well as take quality and other measures into consideration when
making a decision on the right health care provider to fit their needs."

U.S. News & World Report also warns consumers that the rankings "should just be
a starting point."

"Hospitals are evaluated across a wide range of conditions and procedures," the
organization wrote on an FAQ accompanying the rankings. "Within that range,
hospitals can and do perform differently. In pulmonology, for example, a
hospital might rank below another one but do better at treating patients with
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease."

Hospital scores are calculated by combining patient safety and outcome data,
according to U.S. News & World Report. In a handful of specialties, the
organization uses reputation, based on a survey of physician specialists.

Another set of hospital ratings released by the federal government last week
seemed to contradict the U.S. News & World Report rankings at times.

For example, Intermountain Medical Center received three out of five stars,
placing it below Dixie Regional Medical Center.

Dixie Regional Medical Center, University of Utah Health Care and LDS Hospital
were among 14 hospitals in the state that received four out of five stars. None
received five stars, the highest rating.

Salt Lake Regional Medical Center and Davis Hospital and Medical Center were
given two stars, the lowest in the state.

Some hospital administrators and health care organizations criticized the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' methodology as unfair to hospitals
that care for the sickest patients or teach medical students.

Email: dchen@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DaphneChen_

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              148 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 15, 2015 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

BEST HOSPITAL? DEPENDS ON WHICH RANKING IS USED

BYLINE: Steve Twedt, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 671 words


You've seen the placard on the side of Port Authority buses: UPMC makes U.S.
News and World Report's honor roll of best hospitals. In the South Hills, a
billboard on Banksville Road proclaims St. Clair Hospital in Mt. Lebanon among
America's top 100 hospitals.

Impressive as the rankings sound, a Johns Hopkins researcher said those lists
and others like them can confuse patients as well as steer them to the "best"
hospital.

J. Matthew Austin and colleagues from Harvard, Vanderbilt and two California
medical centers analyzed four of lists of the nation's top medical centers and
found that no hospital earned a "high performer" designation in all four lists
and only three of the near-6,000 hospitals in America made it onto three of the
lists. The report did not name the hospitals.

The report is published in the March 4 issue of the journal Health Affairs.

"I think one of the conclusions that we reached is that no one hospital excels
or struggles on every single aspect of quality," said Mr. Austin in a phone
interview.

That's not to say the rankings aren't helpful, he added.

"I think they are an important piece of information to know and understand," he
said. "Unfortunately, the onus falls on the patient to understand what these
rankings are telling them."

In the analysis, the Hopkins researchers looked at four national rating systems:
U.S. News and World Report, HealthGrades, Consumer Reports and Leapfrog Group. A
UPMC spokeswoman said Friday that, of the four, they only participate in the
U.S. News ratings.

The problem, Mr. Austin said, is that each ranking uses different criteria and
methodologies, "often creating the paradox of hospitals' simultaneously being
considered best and worst depending on the rating system used."

The differences also make it difficult to determine how good a particular
hospital's care is, the researchers added.

Leapfrog and Consumer Reports ratings, for example, emphasize safety, while
HealthGrades focus on quality and U.S. News ranks hospitals based on which are
the "best medical centers for the most difficult patients" among larger centers.

Truven Health Analytics, which named St. Clair one of America's top 100
hospitals for the third time in 2014, was not part of the analysis. Truven,
formerly Thomson Reuters, rates hospitals based on data for a number of factors,
from mortality and readmission rates to operating profit.

Robert Morris University health care expert Stephen Foreman likes the U.S. News
approach of evaluating 16 specialties, as it provides information on individual
services.

But, he added, "I've always worried about the rankings. You present them as if
one hospital is like another, and hospitals are all so darn different that it's
almost impossible to come up with anything decent."

Mr. Foreman knows how hard it is to compare hospitals because he has tried.

Years ago, he served on the board of a health insurance startup in Philadelphia
that tried to rank that region's hospitals for quality and cost.

Because routine procedures could be done at less-costly non-research facilities,
"we didn't want people going to Penn for appendectomies," he said,

After six months of research, though, he said the differences and complexities
both between hospitals and within hospitals were so great, "I'm not sure what we
came up with was worth the effort."

The U.S. News rankings are the oldest and probably best known, and the Health
Affairs paper notes that some research has found a link between the U.S. News
"best hospitals" in a lower 30-day patient death rate.

But other studies found no association between the list and hospital
readmissions, another key quality indicator.

Mr. Austin sees the ratings as "an attempt to simplify and understand the safety
and quality of a hospital."

His advice: Go ahead and look at the various ratings "and try to understand what
they're trying to tell me about that hospital, and put that in the context of
what I'm going to the hospital for."

"To be an informed consumer, it does require digging into some of these
details."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Steve Twedt: stwedt@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1963.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: A hospital staffer adjusts equipment
in a surgical suite at St. Clair Hospital in Mt. Lebanon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              149 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                  ALL EDITION

BUFFETT HAS STAKE IN LEE ENTERPRISES

BYLINE: State Journal staff, wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 519 words


Billionaire Warren Buffett's company now owns about 3.2 percent of Lee
Enterprises' stock as Berkshire Hathaway's newspaper holdings continue to grow.
Buffett's Omaha-based company disclosed owning 1.66 million shares of Lee's
stock on Tuesday because the Securities and Exchange Commission refused to let
him keep this investment confidential.

The SEC often lets Buffett conceal investment moves while he's making them
because so many investors try to copy him. In after-hours trading Tuesday, Lee
stock was up more than 35 percent.

Last month, Berkshire announced a deal to buy 63 newspapers from Media General
for $142 million. And Buffett has said Berkshire may buy more newspapers in the
future despite the challenges the industry faces.

Lee is a Davenport, Iowa-based publisher of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and
other newspapers. Lee owns half of Capital Newspapers, publisher of the
Wisconsin State Journal and The Capital Times in Madison.

Hospital ranked among the top 50

UW Hospital's American Family Children's Hospital is ranked among the top 50
children's hospitals in seven specialties this year by U.S. News and World
Report.

The rankings: orthopedics, 23rd; pulmonology, 25th; gastroenterology, 26th;
cancer, 29th; neonatology, 29th; urology, 39th; diabetes/endocrinology, 41st.
The rankings are based on survival rates, infection rates, nurse staffing,
sub-specialist availability and other information.

Web: health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings

CUNA Mutual app gets recognition

Madison-based CUNA Mutual Group again has been named to the CIO 100, an annual
list of the top companies worldwide for operational and strategic excellence in
information technology.

This year's honored project for CUNA Mutual was its smartphone-based loan
technology, a recently released mobile Web application that credit union members
can use to apply for a loan using their smartphones.

Through May 31, the company had used the mobile app to handle $290 million in
loan applications. This year's award marks the fifth time CUNA Mutual has been
on the CIO 100 list since 2004.

BRIEFLY

COMMODITIES: Gold for August delivery rose $3 Tuesday to settle at $1,616.90 an
ounce. July silver rose 39.8 cents to $28.405 an ounce. July copper fell 1.8
cents to $3.289 a pound. In July contracts, wheat fell 14.50 cents to $6.1325 a
bushel, corn fell half a cent to $5.675 a bushel, and soybeans rose 9.5 cents to
$13.495 a bushel.

EXPANSION: Regal Beloit Corp. plans a $6 million building expansion at its Unico
facility in Caledonia, creating up to 175 new jobs, according to Gov. Scott
Walker's office. The expansion will nearly double the workforce and size of the
facility. The Beloit-based company is eligible for up to $695,000 in tax credits
through the Wisconsin Economic Development Corp. Unico makes industrial drive
products.

KIA RECALL: Kia Motors America is recalling nearly 73,000 Rio small cars to fix
a problem with the front-passenger air bag. The recall affects cars from the
2006 to 2008 model years. A sensor inside the front passenger seat can crack and
fail to detect whether a child is sitting in the seat.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2012



CORRECTION: U.S. News and World Report recalculated some of its latest rankings
of top children's hospitals. UW Hospital's American Family Children's Hospital
is 27th in pulmonology, 28th in neonatology, 32nd in gastroenterology and 33rd
in cancer. Those rankings are slightly different from the ones U.S. News
initially released, as reported in a brief item on the front page of the
Business section June 6.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday

Sharjeel was extremely sick!

BYLINE: Anjum Ibrahim

SECTION: Vol. 53 No. 80

LENGTH: 270  words


'Sharjeel Memon is back...'

'Before you say anything, remember that he was extremely sick and was resident
in various hospitals - in London and Dubai and...'

'Have you had a chance to see ratings of Dubai hospitals?'

'No why?'

'Well, the highest rating is for the American Hospital and that too is rated at
2058 in world rankings...and need I add, the highest rating of a Pakistani
hospital is that of CIDP which is 1842, though it's a specialized hospital, but
Jinnah hospital's rating is 2400 - so perhaps Memon sahib...'

'And many, many others...'

'And many, many others should opt for local hospitals...'

'Jinnah Hospital is in Lahore. A no, no for a Zardi like Memon...how is Dr
Asim's hospital ranked in the world?'

'No, all that good - 11385.'

'Where are you getting these rankings?'

'Internet?'

'What about Mian sahib's Sharif Medical Hospital? And before you come up with a
Get Maryam Nawaz slogan, yes she is a trustee of that hospital but so are all
her cousins, her father and all his brothers and wives and...'

'All the wives?'

'OK, Shahbaz Sharif's First Wife only. Anyway the rating of this hospital with
such an august board of trustees is only 11,385 - the same as the ranking of Dr
Asim's Dr Ziauddin Hospital; Khan's Shaukat Khanum beats that ranking hands down
and is rated at 4064 in the world.'

'Hey, this is fake news - I tell you shut down the web or else get First
Daughter's media team to trash this particular website and...'

'You know I was thinking that Mian Sharif was at least fair in granting the
trusteeship of this hospital to all his heirs - you know unlike the distribution
of his wealth...'

'Shush... that is sub judice...'

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday
                                  UNK Edition

Children's Hospital Colorado ranked fifth-best U.S. pediatric center

BYLINE: Electa Draper

SECTION: Z; Pg. 0Z

LENGTH: 216 words


Children's Hospital Colorado was named one of the top five pediatric centers in
the country by U.S. News & World Report, which released its 2015 16 list of the
best Tuesday.

Families can look up the new rankings and detailed information about each
hospital for free at usnews.com to help guide decisions about where to get
treatment for children with rare or life threatening conditions.

In the 2015 16 rankings, 83 hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty.
Twelve hospitals were named to the "Honor Roll" a distinction awarded to
pediatric centers that provide especially high quality care in three or more
specialties.

Boston Children's Hospital was ranked No. 1 in seven out of 10 specialties.

The 2015 16 Best Children's Hospital Honor Roll:

1. Boston Children's Hospital

2. Children's Hospital of Philadelphia

3. Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center

4. Texas Children's Hospital, Houston

5. Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora

The ninth annual rankings highlight the top centers in each of 10 pediatric
specialties: cancer; cardiology and heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology;
gastroenterology and GI surgery; neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; and, pulmonology and urology.

Electa Draper: 303 954 1276, edraper@denverpost.com or twitter.com/electadraper

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     April 16, 1998, Thursday, ALL EDITIONS

Promina system earns top marks;
Trade magazine ranks hospital/physician network No. 1 in nation

BYLINE: Andy Miller

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 01F; Pg. 01F

LENGTH: 405 words


A national trade magazine has confirmed the rapid rise of Atlanta's Promina
Health System, ranking it the No. 1 such hospital and physician network.

Two other local systems ranked in the list of the "Top 100 Integrated Systems":
Columbia/HCA Healthcare's Georgia operation ranked No. 13, and Emory Healthcare
ranked No. 48.

The rankings, done by SMG Marketing Group for Hospitals & Health Networks
magazine, scored local systems on six categories: financial performance;
admissions and occupancy rates; integration of decision-making; service areas;
number of physicians; and managed-care contracting.

Promina, Columbia and Emory all scored well on financial figures and breadth of
facilities and services, Steve Lenz of Chicago-based SMG, a consulting and
information company, said Wednesday. The magazine is published by the American
Hospital Association.

Promina, according to SMG, has a 27 percent market share of hospital admissions
in metro Atlanta. Its hospitals include Piedmont, Gwinnett Medical Center, Cobb
and Kennestone hospitals, DeKalb Medical Center and Southern Regional Medical
Center.

Promina was listed with 1996 hospital patient revenues of $ 984 million and net
income of $ 110 million.

The Top 100 financial information, though, comes from 1996 figures, and before a
massive federal investigation rocked Nashville-based Columbia. Emory spokeswoman
Sylvia Wrobel questioned how the survey defined the Emory system. And some
experts were surprised by Promina's No. 1 position. "It appears the criteria
were based largely on size and market share," said Mike Cadger of consulting
firm Coopers & Lybrand. The ranking does not reflect the system's
cost-effectiveness, nor the extent that it operates as an insurer, he said.

Still, the rankings illustrate the rapid hospital consolidation in metro
Atlanta, sparked by the spread of managed care.

Integrated health systems feature hospitals and physicians in a local network
that markets as a single unit to insurers or employers, to provide services for
members or employees.

Promina, formed in 1994, now has grown to 13 hospitals, and has 1,800 physicians
either employed or actively participating in the system's contracts.

The No. 1 ranking means "we've gone as far as anyone in managed-care contracting
with a single voice," said Promina spokeswoman Cheryl Iverson. Promina has 23
systemwide contracts with managed-care companies.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Metro Final Today's News

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution

                              153 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Reboot Illinois

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

A second opinion: Best hospitals in Illinois, according to U.S. News and World
Report

BYLINE: Caitlin Wilson, Reboot Illinois

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 982 words


July 15--In June, we told you about Consumer Reports' list of best hospitals in
Illinois, but when it comes to your health, it never hurts to get a second
opinion. U.S. News & World Report has released their 2014 list of the top
hospitals around the country, and it varies from the Consumer Reports list.

The all-around star hospital in Illinois, according to U.S. News, is
Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. It is ranked number one in the state
and Chicagoland, and is listed on several national rankings, too. It is ranked
number 10 on the national hospital "Honor Roll" for 2014-2015 for overall
excellence, based on its 10 high-ranking specialty areas. It also cleared the
top 10 in other, more specialized national lists: number 10 for neurology and
neurosurgery, number eight for diabetes and endocrinology and number 9 for
urology. Other Illinois hospitals also were nationally ranked as top 10
hospitals in specialized fields: Rush University Medical Center was named number
six for orthopedics and the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago was named number
one for rehabilitation. (The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. was most
consistently listed as number one in the specialty area lists and was ranked as
the number one overall hospital nationally.)

Here are the best hospitals in Illinois, according to U.S. News and World Report
(some are tied which is why you see multiple numbers repeated):

1. Northwestern Memorial Hospital -- Chicago

2. Rush University Medical Center -- Chicago

3. Advocate Christ Medical Center -- Oak Lawn

3. Loyola University Medical Center -- Maywood

5. St. Alexius Medical Center -- Hoffman Estates

6. University of Chicago Medical Center -- Chicago

7. Advocate Lutheran General Hospital -- Park Ridge

7. Alexian Brothers Medical Center -- Elk Grove Village

9. Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center -- Chicago

9. Cadence Health-Central Dupage Hospital -- Winfield

9. NorthShore Evanston Hospital -- Evanston

The top-ranked hospital in East Central Illinois is Carle Foundation Hospital in
Urbana (14 in Illinois), the best hospital in Northwestern Illinois is
UnityPoint Health-Methodist Hospital in Peoria (20 in Illinois), the best
hospital in Southern Illinois is the Good Samaritan Regional Health Center in
Mount Vernon (34 in Illinois) and the top-ranked in West Central Illinois is
Memorial Medical Center in Springfield (29 in Illinois).

Unlike the Consumer Reports list, the U.S. News rankings list most of Illinois'
top hospitals in the Chicago area. The first hospital to appear on the list that
is not in Chicagoland is Carle Foundation Hospital in Urbana, ranked at number
14 in the state. Some hospitals do overlap high on the best-of lists: Cadence
Health-Central Dupage Hospital, Advocate Lutheran General Hospital and St.
Alexius Medical Center all appear in both rankings. But mostly, hospitals
mentioned by one list are not mentioned by the other.

The U.S. News and World Reports list ranks the best hospitals in the state,
while the Consumer Reports list ranked the safest. According to U.S. News, they
compiled their list of best-of hospitals:

based mostly on death rates for patients who represent especially challenging
cases, on patient safety and on other measures of performance that can be
assessed using hard data. An annual reputational survey of physicians, who are
asked to name hospitals they consider the best in their specialty for difficult
cases, is also factored in.

The hospitals are also rated on number of specialty areas and their reputations.
The criteria section of the rankings explanations points out that just because a
hospital may be top-ranked overall in a speciality area, they may not be the
best hospital for a particular condition within that area.

This list ranked the largest hospitals in the country (with 100 or more beds) or
hospitals that were teaching hospitals/affiliated with medical schools.
Statistics that informed the rankings came from the federal Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services' MedPAR data and the American Hospital Association and was
based on criteria such as death rates, general patient safety number of patients
at any one time and the balance of nurses and patients, reputation among
specialists and availability of proven technologies. Patient safety was weighted
highest in the rankings.

The report acknowledges that the ranking list is a place to start to gather
information about making the right choices for getting the best care. Every
patient is different and must consider different factors when choosing a
hospital. Taken together, the U.S. News and World Report and Consumer Reports
lists might offer an even more comprehensive view than only one of them alone.
From the U.S. News report:

Patients have to do their own research. We also appreciate that families have to
consider the stress and expense of traveling to another city, as well as the
willingness of an insurer to pay for care at a hospital outside its network.

Children's hospitals were ranked separately as there are far fewer in the
nation. The Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago was listed as
the top children's hospital in Illinois.

Caitlin Wilson is a staff writer for Reboot Illinois. She graduated from Loyola
University Chicago, where she studied journalism and political science. Caitlin
has become both endeared to and frustrated with her adopted home state and wants
to bring Illinoisans the information they need to actively participate in the
politics that directly affect them. You can find Reboot on Facebook here and on
Twitter at @rebootillinois.

Reboot Illinois is a nonpartisan website and social media effort dedicated to
involving Illinoisans in the key issues facing our state, including state debt,
corruption and waste and improving business and schools.

___ (c)2014 Reboot Illinois Visit Reboot Illinois at www.rebootillinois.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140715-2IL-A-second-opinion-Best-hospitals
-in-Illinois-according-to-U-S-News-and-World-Report-0715-20140715

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 2IL


                                 Copyright 2014

                              154 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Post-Bulletin (Rochester, MN)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune News Service

                              July 7, 2006 Friday

National magazine ranks Mayo No. 2

BYLINE: Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


Jul. 7--U.S. News & World Report has ranked Mayo Clinic second overall to Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore in its 2006 edition of America's Best Hospitals,
which is available Monday.

Now in its 17th year, America's Best Hospitals screens more than 5,189 hospitals
and medical centers. It ranks 176 of them in 16 specialties.

"Choosing the right hospital is critical," said Brian Duffy, editor of U.S. News
& World Report. "U.S. News' annual hospital guide provides consumers with a
comprehensive assessment to choose the best hospital specific to their needs.
Although this year's Honor Roll is an elite group, hospitals around the country
are excelling in a variety of fields."

Of the 176 medical centers that are ranked in this year's edition of America's
Best Hospitals, 14 earned Honor Roll status by ranking at or near the top in at
least six specialties, a demonstration of unusually broad expertise.

The top five are, in order, Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore; Mayo Clinic in
Rochester; Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland; Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston; and UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles.

The rankings weigh three elements equally: reputation, death rate and such
care-related factors as nursing and patient services.

The guide also covers the topic of when patients should go to highly regarded
hospitals.

Mayo rank

Here are Mayo Clinic's national rankings by category, according to the U.S. News
& World Report 2006 America's Best Hospitals. The complete rankings are
available at www.usnews.com.

Digestive disorders: 1

Endocrinology: 1

Neurology and neurosurgery: 1

Orthopedics: 1

Heart and heart surgery: 2

Kidney disease: 2

Respiratory diseases: 2

Rheumatology: 2

Gynecology: 3

Urology: 3

Cancer: 4

Rehabilitation: 4

Ear, nose and throat: 8

Psychiatry: 11

Ophthalmology: 13

Pediatrics: 23

Copyright (c) 2006, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060707-RC-0707-National-magazine-ranks-Mayo-No-2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2006 Post-Bulletin

                              155 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A better way to assess and rank B.C. schools

BYLINE: Jerry Mussio, Special to Times Colonist

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 794  words


The latest Fraser Institute school rankings no doubt will be used by provincial
education organizations to argue once again that the rankings are unfair and
should be stopped.

After an unsuccessful attempt earlier this year to block the administration of
the Foundation Skills Assessment in Grades 4 and 7, the B.C. Teachers'
Federation has now asked the new minister of education to suspend the FSA and
provincial examinations in Grades 10 to 12. These provincewide tests form the
basis of the Fraser Institute rankings, so the proposed suspension would
effectively kill the rankings.

It's becoming clear that the Fraser Institute rankings do not provide a fair
comparison of schools.

But the solution isn't to stop testing students. The solution is to provide
parents and the public with better information.

The annual Fraser Institute report cards provide a good summary of data for each
school in the province. The problem arises when test data are combined to form a
single index and all schools lumped together and ranked from top to bottom.

Predictably, the private school charging high fees and admitting only top
students is ranked at the top and the public school taking all comers, including
high numbers of children struggling with poverty and unstable families, is
ranked at the bottom.

In other words, the Fraser Institute rewards schools who seek to admit only the
best students and penalizes those who reach out to include those children who
struggle to achieve success.

The recent B.C. Hospital Report Card, also published by the Fraser Institute,
uses a different approach. Hospital rankings in B.C. are "risk adjusted" to
account for differences in patient health status when they enter a hospital.
This is done to ensure that a hospital's score reflects the performance grading
that the hospital would have received if it had provided services to patients
with an average mix of medical complications.

Put another way, the B.C. Health Report Card doesn't reward hospitals for
turning away high-risk patients.

Responding to criticisms over school rankings in Quebec, the Montreal Economic
Institute severed its partnership with the Fraser Institute and developed a new
set of rankings. Their new rankings assess the school's impact on learning after
a number of key variables are taken into account, including whether a school
selects its incoming students.

Some B.C. educators are beginning to explore an even better approach. This
involves tracking those students who, for example, are enrolled in Grade 4 and
who go on to complete Grade 7 in the same school. FSA scores, and other data,
are then used to estimate gains in learning for this cohort over the three-year
period.

To encourage healthy competition and promote innovation in improving
achievement, schools serving similar student populations could be ranked in
relation to their learning gains. The Ministry of Education could easily produce
this type of data for schools.

Measuring student progress with provincial standardized tests in reading,
writing and mathematics is critical as these skills represent a core
responsibility of the public school system. Continuing to offer provincial
examinations in high schools also helps to assure parents, whether in Point Grey
or in Port McNeill, that their local school meets high performance standards.

But measuring the effectiveness of a school involves more than tests in academic
subjects. Schools also have a responsibility to work with families and the
community to develop in students a sense of self worth and personal initiative
and to prepare students for post-secondary education and the job market. The
school accreditation system, first established in the 1930s, did a good job of
examining school performance across these broader goals but was dropped in 2002,
partly because of concerns that it had become too bureaucratic. This model
deserves another look.

British Columbia students, as a group, tend to score high on international
tests, but achievement levels and graduation rates appear to have flattened in
recent years. Significantly, about 20 per cent of students do not meet literacy
standards and the same percentage do not graduate from high school.

In today's world, education has become a major determinant of a nation's social
and economic success, and the province's future will be determined, to a great
extent, by our willingness to reach the 20 per cent of children who are not
succeeding.

But by rewarding schools who admit only top students and ignore the rest, the
Fraser Institute is pushing the province in the wrong direction.

Jerry Mussio is former director of student assessment with the Ministry of
Education and was Canada's representative in development of the OECD Program for
International Student Assessment.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2009 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases: National Hospital Ranking
Again Recognizes U-M Health System for Broad-based Excellence in Adult Care

LENGTH: 212  words


July 15 -- The annual survey of American hospitals puts U-M in the national top
tier in 15 different medical specialties, for treating patients with everything
from joint disorders, cancer and eye conditions to heart disease, kidney failure
and ear, nose and throat complaints.

This year, only 144 of the thousands of hospitals across the country earned even
one ranked spot on the U.S. News lists of Best Hospitals. But UMHS earned that
distinction in eight specialties.

In another seven, U-M's care was recognized as among the nation's finest.
What's more, this is the 22nd year in a row that UMHS has been recognized for
strong across-the-board performance on a national level.

The new rankings for adult care follow on the heels of the Best Children's
Hospitals ratings issued last month. In those, U-M's C.S. Mott Children's
Hospital achieved top-tier national rankings in all 10 pediatric specialties
that U.S. News rates.    Even as the new rankings come out, UMHS leaders are
parsing the data behind them, as part of continuous efforts to find ways to
improve patient safety and clinical quality.

In recent years, hard-data measures such as these have driven great change in
American health care - and UMHS has harnessed them in a never-ending quest for
improvement.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 13, 2012 Friday

Low safety ratings worry area hospitals

BYLINE: Madeline Buxton, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1034 words


July 13--Directly next to the University of Toledo Medical Center's main
entrance is a large banner proudly announcing the hospital's ranking as number
one in the region, according to a U.S. News and World Report from July, 2011.

It's a safe bet there won't be a banner proclaiming the hospital's safety rating
in the August, 2012, issue of Consumer Reports: out of 107 ranked Ohio
hospitals, UT Medical Center, the former Medical College of Ohio, was last with
a score of 28 out of 100.

UT Medical Center wasn't the only well-known hospital to perform poorly --
Cleveland Clinic, one of the most highly regarded institutions in the country,
earned a score of 39 out of 100. More than half of the study's rated hospitals
-- a total of 1,159 in the United States -- received a score below 50.

CONSUMER REPORTS ARTICLE: How Safe Is Your Hospital?

Officials at UT Medical Center chalk the poor ranking up to what they said are
flaws in Consumer Reports' data gathering.

"My guess is that they are rushing into [this field of ranking hospitals] to
jump on a bandwagon," said Dr. Lloyd Jacobs, the president of the University of
Toledo. "We take this really seriously, but at the same time my impression is
that they did a sloppy job of dealing with the data."

While Consumer Reports has been rating hospitals on individual criteria, such as
hospital-contracted infections and patient satisfaction since 2008, this is the
first year that the magazine, published by the nonprofit Consumers' Union, has
come up with composite safety scores for hospitals, said Tildy La Farge,
communications counsel at Consumer Reports.

Six categories are included in the composite safety score: surgical-site
infections, re-admission rates, overuse of scanning, communication about new
medications and discharge, complications, and mortality.

The ratings use a one to five scale that is denoted by Consumer Reports'
characteristic colored dots, known as blobs.

Although the report is intended as a means for patients to compare various
institutions, officials at UT Medical Center said that the small number of
hospitals represented in the rankings make such comparisons difficult -- 80
percent of hospitals in the United States could not be ranked because of a lack
of available information. The data upon which rankings were based came from the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, information reported to states from
hospitals, and the Leapfrog Group, which provides its own hospital safety
scores.

"Unlike what Consumer Reports does for washing machines and automobiles and
other things, they have, to use their word, 'scraped' the data from other
publicly reported sources," said Dr. Jeffrey Gold, the chancellor, executive
vice president for biosciences and health affairs, and dean of the college of
medicine and life sciences at the UT Medical Center. "Part of it is
self-reported and most of it is not risk-adjusted to the severity of illness ...
it represents a very limited survey."

Among its concerns with the accuracy of measurements used for the rankings, UT
Medical Center cited small sample sizes, which Dr. Gold said denoted trends
rather than significant conclusions. He also took issue with the study's
re-admission rates, which he said included patients who come back to the
hospital for staged procedures, which are common in orthopedics, cancer care,
and those suffering from coronary artery disease. "If you don't correct for
that, it gets characterized as a hospital re-admission," he said.

Dr. Gold also argued that the report doesn't account for varying levels of
complexity in care -- 50 percent or more of the patients seen at UT Medical
Center are referred or transferred from other hospitals that "don't want to care
for those higher-risk patients."

"The long and short of it is, I don't care what risk-adjusted mortality is
compared to a community primary access hospital," he said. "I want to know how
we're doing compared to hospitals that provide services of the same complexity
we provide."

John Palmer, a spokesman for the Ohio Hospital Association, said that when
considering hospital care, patients should be careful not to place too much
stake in one ranking system. He pointed to the importance of looking over a
variety of available sources instead of relying on one.

Mr. Palmer's view was seconded by those hospitals that ranked more highly in the
Consumer Reports study, who said their work in improving patient safety is far
from done.

"It's just a very small piece of the pie," said Charla Ulrich, the director of
quality at Mercy St. Vincent Medical Center, which was the third highest ranked
hospital in Lucas County with a score of 58 out of 100. "[The ranking] should
not be taken out of context and looked at as individual decision-maker related
to care."

Administrators at ProMedica Hospitals in Lucas County -- Flower, which received
a score of 65, and Toledo Hospital, which received a score of 64 -- also found
that as a whole, the state of Ohio has a ways to go in improving patient safety.

"None of the hospitals in the state did wonderful," said Kevin Webb, the
president of Toledo Hospital. "Until we get to zero patient safety problems
we're not where we need to be."

Consumer Reports, which expressed confidence in its first attempt at a composite
hospital safety score, acknowledged there are still advances to be made. "We
think this is a good start," said Dr. John Santa, the director of the health
rating center at Consumer Reports. "There are other things we're hoping to
include in our safety analysis, so we think we're going to be able to improve
this."

For his part, Dr. Gold doesn't believe that applications to the medical school
will decline and remains hopeful that patients won't view the hospital
differently as the result of one ranking.

"If this does defer students to other institutions, if this does defer patients
to less safe institutions, if this does have a negative impact on this
community, it would be the greatest tragedy of all," he said.

Contact Madeline Buxton at: mbuxton@theblade.com or 419-724-6368.

Related Attachments:

___ (c)2012 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120713-TO-HLT-Low-safety-ratings-worry-area-hospitals-0713-20120713

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2012 The Blade

                              158 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         La Crosse Tribune (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Gundersen, Mayo-Franciscan in top 15 Wisconsin hospitals on U.S. News list

BYLINE: Mike Tighe, La Crosse Tribune, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 527 words


July 16--La Crosse's two major medical centers are ranked in the top 15 of
Wisconsin out of 152 hospitals statewide on U.S. News and World Report's annual
America's Best Hospitals list.

Gundersen Health System is 11th on the list, released Tuesday, while Mayo Clinic
Health System-Franciscan Healthcare is No. 14. They also are tabbed as the top
two out of 16 hospitals in southwest Wisconsin.

The highest-ranked hospital in the state is the University of Wisconsin
Hospitals and Clinics, while Mayo-Eau Claire is sixth.

Mayo-Franciscan's mother ship -- Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. -- was judged
as the best hospital out of nearly 4,750 analyzed in the country, according to
the 25th annual rankings, which are based on 16 specialties.

Hospitals in the top 25 percent in adult specialty departments also are labeled
"high performing."

Gundersen received that designation for its gynecology and urology services,
while Mayo-Franciscan was lauded for its urology services.

Michael Richards, Gundersen's executive director of external affairs, said, "At
Gundersen, we strive to provide the best care for every patient and to improve
the health and well-being of the communities we serve in Wisconsin, Minnesota
and Iowa.

"Whether it is a U.S. News and World Report ranking today or a Healthgrades top
hospital ranking tomorrow, we strive every day to be the best for our patients."

Dr. Tim Johnson, president and CEO of Mayo-Franciscan, said, "Our staff focuses
on providing expert care for the whole person. We continue to be diligent when
reviewing processes that improve clinical quality and patient safety."

Mayo in Rochester, which moved up from No. 3 nationally last year to top the
list for the first time, logged more No. 1 rankings for the 16 specialties than
any other provider in the country, according to U.S. News.

More than 9,500 physicians were surveyed to arrive at the rankings, which
included factors such as death rates, patient safety and hospital reputation.

Twelve of the specialties are judged on data, including cancer; cardiology and
heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology;
nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.
The other four, based on reputation, are ophthalmology, psychiatry,
rehabilitation and rheumatology.

The magazine's website noted that the findings, available at
http://health.usnews.com/, don't necessarily mean that a hospital is the best
choice for individual care.

"Each specialty ranking evaluates hospitals according to their performance
across a wide range of conditions and procedures," the website cautioned. "In
pulmonology, for example, one hospital might rank lower than another overall but
do much better in treating a particular condition, like chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease."

The results should be viewed as a starting point, but patients should consult
their physicians for the best options in each case, it advised.

___ (c)2014 the La Crosse Tribune (La Crosse, Wis.) Visit the La Crosse Tribune
(La Crosse, Wis.) at www.lacrossetribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140716-LQ-Gundersen-Mayo-Franciscan-in-top-15-Wisconsin-hospitals
-on-U-S-News-list-0716-20140716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LQ


                        Copyright 2014 La Crosse Tribune

                              159 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Fox Chase Cancer Center Ranked 19th Among the Nation's Top 50 Hospitals for
Cancer Care by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 235  words


July 15 -- Fox Chase Cancer Center has been ranked 19th among the nation's top
50 hospitals for cancer care in U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals
2014-2015 rankings. Fox Chase was also cited as high performing in the areas of
nephrology, urology, and gynecology, as well as a new area - ear, nose, and
throat.



"Our remarkable standing in this year's U.S. News & World Report national
ranking reflects not only the hard work and mission-driven mindset of everyone
who works at Fox Chase, but illustrates the great strides our Center is making
in cancer science and medicine," says Richard I. Fisher, MD, President and CEO
of Fox Chase.

The U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals rankings are published online
annually in July, showcasing the best of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals.
The national rankings evaluate hospitals strengths in 16 adult specialties. In
most specialties, it ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other
high-performing hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their
nationally ranked peers.

They are based on a number of variables, including a national survey asking
physicians to rate institutions on reputation. Among the other factors
considered are types of facilities available, specific services offered, patient
safety measures, Magnet nursing status, and selected outcomes metrics. Much of
the data is averaged over a rolling three-year period.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 13, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BEST-OF LIST EVOLVES INTO BIG TOOL FOR MARKETING;
CONSUMER GUIDE TO MEDICAL CENTERS BECOMES PUBLIC-RELATIONS BONANZA

BYLINE: Marianna Riley; Of The Post-DispatchLBIZ MEDICAL CARE; HOSPITALIZATION;
MAGAZINE; PUBLICATION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 756 words


Expect a Federal Express package, reporters at dozens of newspapers across the
country were told.

Expect an important fax, public-relations types at big hospitals across the
country were told.

Thus began the hoopla for the health-care industry's annual and most-hyped
championship: the release of "America's Best Hospitals," an annual ranking of
hospitals compiled by U.S. News and World Report.

On early Thursday morning last week -- four days before the magazine even would
be available on newsstands -- fax machines at 582 hospital and media sources
were cranking. At the same time, 396 press kits were delivered by FedEx.

And hospital marketing and public-relations staffers in St. Louis and around the
nation haven't slowed since. Getting on the list is a big deal, not to mention
an important marketing tool for the institutions named.

"I was there at 6 a.m. the day the rankings came out," said Susan Hakes,
director of marketing and public relations for St. Louis University Hospital.

St. Louis University Hospital didn't make the honor roll, but it scored an
impressive number of listings in 12 specialties. Marketing staffers immediately
began putting together a new ad to tout the performance.

Kim Kitson, a spokesperson for Barnes-Jewish Hospital, also was at work early on
Thursday. Barnes-Jewish was the only local hospital on the honor roll of 15
hospitals. The hospital has made the list for the past eight years.

Over the years, Kitson has become experienced in disseminating the information,
first to the hospital's administrative team by voice mail and then to others on
the staff.

Barnes-Jewish also immediately sent press releases to the media and added the
ranking to its Web site. To come: Advertisements and updated banners on the
streets surrounding the hospital's large complex in the Central West End.

There's also the billboard. Eastbound motorists on nearby Highway 40 (Interstate
64) will soon learn about the latest honor, too.

Other St. Louis institutions making the top 50 in at least one specialty in the
magazine's rankings were St. Luke's Hospital of Chesterfield, which was ranked
47th in both respiratory and geriatric care, and St. John's Mercy Medical Center
of Creve Coeur, ranked 49th in orthopedics.

Unity Health System, parent of both, promptly put out that news in a press
release, noting that St. Luke's and St. John's were the "only two area hospitals
not directly associated with a medical school to be included in the rankings."

Though some doctors complain that what started as a legitimate consumer guide to
hospitals has turned into a public-relations bonanza, Hakes of St. Louis
University says the U.S. News rankings are valuable.

"It's interesting because these rankings are based on a lot of quantitative
data, and it's a chance for us to compare ourselves nationally with other
hospitals that are similar to us," she said.

Avery Comarow, the U.S. News editor of the "America's Best Hospitals," listing,
said the project was started 11 years ago "to give patients information they
couldn't get anywhere else when they needed the very best help available."

Almost 2,000 hospitals were considered for the rankings. To be eligible,
hospitals had to be members of the Council of Teaching Hospitals, be affiliated
with a medical school, or provide at least nine out of 17 prescribed
technological services.

Those hospitals were then ranked based on reputation, mortality and other
factors such as technology, procedure volume and nursing care. The reputation
analysis was based on a survey of 2,550 physicians in various specialties, while
the other data were based on government records and industry surveys.

Comarow admits to frustration about how the list has evolved into a marketing
tool and to a certain naivet in 1989 when the list was started. "What I didn't
realize and didn't anticipate is what a potent marketing tool it would become,
particularly for those on the honor roll," he said. "

It doesn't make me happy."

By the way, a programming mistake meant that the first list that newspapers and
hospitals received and the same list in the issue that hit the newsstands Monday
was wrong.

As a result, Missouri's only representative on the honor roll, Barnes-Jewish,
got bumped up a notch, with recognition in 15 of the 17 specialties surveyed.

Instead of tying with Brigham and Women's Hospital of Boston for 8th place,
Barnes-Jewish is now tied for 7th place with Stanford University Hospital in
Stanford, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color photo - U.S. News - America's Best Hospitals (magazine
cover)

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

                              161 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 1, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

US News Ranks Scripps No. 1 for Heart Care, Diabetes, Gynecology,
Gastroenterology in San Diego Region

LENGTH: 1091  words


Aug. 1 -- U.S. News & World Report has ranked Scripps Health's heart care,
diabetes, gynecology and gastroenterology programs the best in the San Diego
region, and named Scripps among the nation's best in seven specialties in the
magazine's annual "Best Hospitals" list.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, recognize
the nation's top 50 hospitals that excel in treating patients with the most
challenging health care needs. U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult
specialties and ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals in 12 of those specialties
based largely on hard data.

The combined programs of Scripps Green Hospital and Scripps Memorial Hospital La
Jolla - listed by the magazine as "Scripps La Jolla Hospitals and Clinics" - are
among the nation's top 50 hospitals in:

* Gynecology (No. 21)

* Diabetes and Endocrinology (No. 24)

* Cardiology and Heart Surgery (No. 28)

* Pulmonology (No. 32)

* Orthopedics (No. 34)

* Gastroenterology and GI Surgery (No. 45)

* Geriatrics (No. 48)

"Scripps has a long legacy of delivering outstanding patient care," said Chris
Van Gorder, president and CEO of Scripps Health. "These rankings are a testament
to the deep dedication and exceptional skill of our physicians, nurses and
others who are on the front lines of caring for our patients every day."

The U.S. News rankings are the latest in a series of recent accolades earned by
Scripps hospitals. Last week, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
gave Scripps Green and Scripps Memorial Hospital La Jolla a five-star ranking
for quality, making them the only hospitals in the region with the highest
distinction and among only 3 percent in the nation to earn the recognition.
Earlier, Scripps Health was named as one of the top 15 health systems in the
nation by Truven Health Analytics for the fourth time.

Heart care

This is the 12th year the Scripps heart care program has made the U.S. News
national ranking. More than 76,000 patients receive their cardiovascular care
from Scripps, making it San Diego County's largest heart care provider.

Last year, Scripps opened the Prebys Cardiovascular Institute on the campus of
Scripps Memorial Hospital La Jolla, bringing together leading researchers,
physicians, staff and technologies in the most advanced center dedicated to
heart care on the West Coast. Through a longtime partnership with Kaiser
Permanente, Scripps is the exclusive provider of cardiac surgery and
interventional cardiology surgery to Kaiser Permanente members in the San Diego
region.

Orthopedics

Scripps is recognized for excellence in orthopedic surgery, joint replacement,
sports medicine and treatment of complex conditions. In addition, Scripps is the
official medical provider for the San Diego Padres. The Donald P. and Darlene
Shiley Musculoskeletal Center on the campus of Scripps Green Hospital also is
home to groundbreaking orthopedic research and education.

Diabetes

Diabetes and endocrinology programs at Scripps provide comprehensive
evidence-based diabetes screening, education and patient care. Scripps Whittier
Diabetes Institute oversees one of the largest American Diabetes
Association-recognized diabetes education programs in the nation and is home to
Project Dulce, an award-winning diabetes care and education program that
addresses the specific needs of culturally diverse populations.

Gynecology

Scripps offers a full range of gynecological services - from annual check-ups
and prenatal care, to deliveries, minimally invasive surgery and post-menopausal
care. Services also include treatments for a variety of cancers and pelvic floor
disorders, featuring state-of-the-art equipment for minimally invasive robotic
surgery.

Pulmonary medicine

Scripps' pulmonary medicine services include diagnosis and treatment options for
routine and complex respiratory problems, such as asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease and lung cancer.

Gastroenterology and GI surgery

Scripps is recognized for treating the most challenging digestive and liver
problems as well as offering access to emerging therapies through clinical
research. In 1990, Scripps established San Diego's first liver transplant
program and founded the Scripps Clinic Liver Disease Center, which is
internationally recognized for research and treatment of people with chronic
liver disease.

Geriatrics

Scripps has more than 90 physicians whose specialties or areas of expertise
include geriatric medicine. These physicians are skilled at providing care to
older patients for a wide range of conditions associated with aging.

'High Performing' in specialty areas

U.S. News also recognizes "High Performing" hospitals that were not ranked in
the top 50 but scored among the top 10 percent of hospitals that received
scores.

The combined programs of Scripps Green Hospital and Scripps Memorial Hospital La
Jolla were recognized for high performance in the following specialties:

* Nephrology

* Neurology and Neurosurgery

* Rheumatology

Scripps Mercy Hospital was recognized for high performance in the following
specialties:

* Diabetes

* Gastroenterology and GI surgery

* Nephrology

* Pulmonology

* Urology

Scripps Memorial Hospital Encinitas was recognized for high performance in
orthopedics.

State and metro rankings

U.S. News also ranked best regional hospitals in 45 metropolitan areas with a
population of a million people or more, based largely on the number of national
rankings achieved. The combined programs of Scripps Green and Scripps La Jolla
were ranked No. 2 in the San Diego metro area and No. 7 in California.

Scripps Mercy was ranked No.4 in the San Diego metro area and No. 24 in
California.

Methodology

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties. The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International; a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings. All
rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and will
appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals guidebook, available in
bookstores and on newsstands in September.

Learn more about Scripps Health, a nonprofit integrated health system in San
Diego, Calif.

Source: Scripps Green Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                             August 2, 2013 Friday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

LOCAL HOSPITAL RATINGS PROVIDE SURPRISES

BYLINE: JODIE TILLMAN, Times Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: Consumer Reports based rankings on post-surgery Medicare billing data
of elderly patients.


Just two weeks ago, Tampa General Hospital celebrated its ranking by U.S. News &
World Report as the second-best hospital in Florida.

But this week a Consumer Reports guide put Tampa General at the bottom of the
list in Florida when it comes to how elderly patients do after surgeries.
Joining TGH in the back of the pack were Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater,
Shands at the University of Florida and Orlando Regional Medical Center.

Near the top of the list? St. Anthony's Hospital in St. Petersburg and Citrus
Memorial Hospital in Inverness.

The local rankings fit into a surprising overall theme of the new Consumer
Reports guide: Many of the nation's best-regarded hospitals didn't do as well as
their smaller, lesser-known counterparts.

How Consumer Reports reached its conclusions is somewhat controversial.
Researchers analyzed Medicare claims data from 2009 to 2011 for more than two
dozen procedures, including back surgery, vascular surgery, and hip and knee
replacements. Consumer Reports then evaluated the hospitals based on whether
patients died in the hospital or stayed longer than expected after their
surgeries.

TGH spokesman John Dunn said billing data does not give as full as a picture as
clinical records. A patient coming in for a hip replacement, for instance, may
have myriad existing problems that complicate recovery.

He added that TGH, as a safety net hospital, takes "the sickest of the sick." On
the whole, teaching hospitals such as TGH did not do better than average in the
rankings.

"I think the fundamental weakness is they're relying on billing data," Dunn
said.

Doris Peter, associate director of Consumer Reports Health Ratings Center, said
researchers developed a model to take into account pre-existing complications.
For instance, medical codes indicate whether a surgical patient is admitted with
hypertension, she said, so the model makes allowances.

"The idea is that these models adjust for these problems," she said.

BayCare Health System, Tampa Bay's largest health care provider, includes both
the high-ranking St. Anthony's and low-ranking Morton Plant Hospital.
Spokeswoman Beth Hardy said patients shouldn't use only the Consumer Reports
guide when making a decision about where to get surgery. "It's one tool in the
toolbox," she said.

For one, it looks only at older patients. "It's unlikely these data are a good
idea of what non-Medicare patients should expect," she said. Also, she noted,
hospitals often keep elderly patients in their care longer because they don't
have anyone to help them at home while recuperating.

Peter, the Consumer Reports director, acknowledged that the ratings are just one
indication of a hospital's performance. "It's not a perfect proxy," she said.
She said researchers didn't have an explanation for why the smaller community
hospitals did better than the larger ones. Critics of their method, she said,
had expected the exact opposite.

Jodie Tillman can be reached at jtillman@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3374.

* * *

Fast facts

Review the list

To download Consumer Reports' overall surgery ratings, go to Links in today's
Times at tampabay.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         La Crosse Tribune (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 30, 2009 Friday

BRIEF: Gundersen Lutheran receives top 5 ranking

BYLINE: La Crosse Tribune, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 234 words


Jan. 30--Gundersen Lutheran has received the Health-Grades' 2009 Distin-guished
Hospital Award for Clinical Excellence based on clinical quality performance for
the second straight year.

The ranking places Gundersen Lutheran among the nation's top 5 percent of
hospitals. This year only 270 of the nation's nearly 5,000 non-federal hospitals
will receive the award.

The rankings are based on an independent study of mortality and complication
rates for nearly 5,000 hospitals released by HealthGrades, a national health
care ratings company.

According to the HealthGrades study, patients admitted to a hospital receiving
this award are, on average, 27 percent less likely to die and 8 percent less
likely to suffer from a major complication.

Gundersen Lutheran also achieved several other HealthGrades quality
designations, including excellence awards for critical care, joint replacement,
pulmonary care, general surgery, bariatric surgery and treatment of heart attack
and heart failure.

To see more of the La Crosse Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.lacrossetribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, La Crosse Tribune, Wis.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090130-LQ-BRF-Gundersen-Lutheran-receives-top-5-ranking-0130

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LQ


                        Copyright 2009 La Crosse Tribune

                              164 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             May 25, 2005 Wednesday
                    Flagler/palm Coast News-tribune Edition

Pretty Flagler hospital one of nations best

BYLINE: STAFF REPORT

SECTION: YOUR HEALTH; Pg. 12D

LENGTH: 306  words

DATELINE: PALM COAST


PALM COAST Florida Hospital Flagler is one of the prettiest hospitals in the
nation. And, according to a healthcare business information company, it also is
one of the nations best. The hospital was named one of the nations top 100
hospitals by Solucient in its latest National Benchmarks for Success study. The
study ranks hospitals of similar size in four performance areas: quality of
care; efficiency; financial performance; and growing community service. Hospital
officials were pleased with the study results.

This is the first time weve made the Solucient Top 100, said Eric Stevens, vice
president for operations at the Flagler County facility. Its a big deal.
Solucient is one of the largest and most prestigious benchmarking (companies)
looking at hospitals. Under the category of small community hospitals, Florida
Hospital Flagler out- performed facilities of similar size on several measures.
The hospitals average length of stay was 3.63 days, 11 percent shorter than at
other benchmark hospitals. The hospitals percentage of community served
increased over the study period compared to a slight drop for similar sized
facilities. Stevens said the ranking is a validation of the hospitals effort to
provide quality care for the community.

We put a great deal of emphasis on creating a high-quality facility, he said. It
compares very favorably with similar hospitals across the country. Stevens said
the high ranking also gives the Flagler facility a glimpse at how it compares
with other hospitals.

The road weve chosen to take has started to show successful returns, he said.
Stevens said the hospital will have a plaque to hang in the front lobby and will
put up a banner announcing the ranking but, for the most part, any celebrating
will be done internally with employees.

This ranking is a product of their work, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Florida Hospital Flagler is not just another pretty face. Its
also been rated by Solucient as one of the nations top 100 hospitals.File
photo/Brian Myrick

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2005 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2005 News-Journal Corporation

                              165 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Hospitals to have rankings

BYLINE: Suchitra Bajpai Chaudhary Senior Reporter

LENGTH: 410 words


Dubai: The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) will soon introduce ranking for
hospitals and services, quite like the five star rankings in hotels, to create
international standards in medical tourism.

Announcing this at the Arab Health Congress, Dr Layla Al Marzouqi, Director of
DHA's Medical Tourism initiative and Acting Director of the Medical Regulation
department, told Gulf News: "We will rank health-care facilities and have
already started the initiative. These rankings would be benchmarked against
international standards."

Among some of the criteria for rankings would be the performance, qualification
and experience of doctors, the rate of successful surgeries, rate of violations,
the capacity and quality of equipment, the ambience of the place, the
availability of translation services, the outcome of audits and other such
indicators. Based on these the hospital's services or the hospital will be
ranked and the results will be available on the Medical Tourism website. Any
patient applying for a treatment will be able to independently see this
evaluation and choose the service or the place accordingly.

Eisa Al Maidour, DHA Director-General, added that the prices of all services
would be competitive and comparable to worldwide standards once the ranking is
in place.

Dr Layla also announced the introduction of the medical tourism club which
currently comprises 30 members -- CEOs and managing partners of private
health-care facilities who are major stakeholders in the medical tourism
initiative. "The members will meet every month and will discuss various aspects
such as insurance, transparency and pricing, medical complaints procedure, etc."

She added that there is huge potential in the medical sector in Dubai and that
there are 10 hospitals in Dubai that are presently under construction, which
will add to the number of hospital beds in Dubai. "Some of the hospitals are
specialised hospitals, which means the doctors will be specialised or even
super-specialised. The growth in the medical sector is phenomenal. Over the
years, health-care groups that had clinics are moving towards building
hospitals, while those that have hospitals and now moving towards building
super-speciality hospitals. Some of the under-construction hospitals are
specialised hospitals for cancer, paediatrics etc. All this will further
strengthen the quality of health care provided in Dubai which, in turn, will
positively impact the medical tourism initiative."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2015 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

California: Hospital Ratings &#226;&#128;&#148; Fast Becoming More Popular
&#226;&#128;&#148; Don&#226;&#128;&#153;t Paint Whole Picture, Experts Say

LENGTH: 287  words

DATELINE: New York



 Sacramento: California Healthline, The State of California has issued the
following news release:



   Though they can be a good place for a patient to start -- and can help
hospitals market themselves -- star ratings and other rankings don't take into
account how complex such health systems are, experts warn.





 The San Diego Union-Tribune: Do Hospital Rankings Benefit Consumers?

 On Tuesday, U.S. News & World Report released its 27th annual "Best Hospital"
rankings, including an honor roll of 20 hospitals from around the country --
such as the Mayo Clinic, Cleveland Clinic and UCLA Medical Center. ... Less than
a week ago, the federal government released its first-ever ratings system for
overall hospital quality, which in many cases seemed at odds with the U.S. News
rankings. For example, the government placed Paradise Valley Hospital in
National City above the usually vaunted UC San Diego Medical Center. (Smith,
8/1)



 In other hospital news --



 KPCC: Tips On Getting Along With Hospital Staff

 What if they get the wrong paperwork, medication, surgery -- the list goes on.
And the "what ifs" can lead friends and family members to overstep their bounds
with hospital staff. Conversely, nurses may be more concerned with providing
medical care than communicating with patients, a skill they may not have learned
in nursing school. But according to a Wall Street Journal article, that may be
changing. Programs and workshops are cropping up to help nurses communicate with
patients and their loved ones, and hospital staff have some recommendations on
how to get the best care. (Morrison and Sy, 8/1)





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              July 17, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2 local hospitals ranked in top 50

BYLINE: MARY SHEDDEN, mshedden@tampatrib.com

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 268 words


Annual survey recognizes Moffitt and Tampa General.

By MARY SHEDDEN

mshedden@tampatrib.com

TAMPA - H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute and Tampa General
Hospital were named to top 50 specialty rankings released Thursday by U.S. News
& World Report.

Moffitt was 16th in the nation and first in Florida for cancer hospitals in the
20th annual "America's Best Hospitals" rankings conducted by the national
magazine. It was the 11th consecutive year the Tampa hospital made the list.

Tampa General placed in the top 50 in seven medical specialties: diabetes and
endocrine disorders (32); geriatric care (47); gynecology (22); heart and heart
surgery (34), kidney disorders (37), orthopedics (27); and urology (29).

No Bay area hospital made the magazine's honor roll of 21 hospitals ranking near
the top in at least six of the 16 specialties graded.

The ranking of 4,861 American hospitals was determined through a combination of
objective and subjective measures, making the results the source of some debate.

Objective data include safety reports and mortality statistics from Medicare
recipients. A subjective "reputation" calculation determined one-third of a
hospital's score. As in previous years, it was compiled by surveying a random
sample of 200 specialty physicians asked to list five hospitals they consider
the best in their area of expertise.

Results of the survey can be viewed at http://health.usnews .com/health/best-
hospitals.

Reporter Mary Shedden can be reached at (813) 259-7365.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company

                              168 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Hospital safety group ranks Maine first in the nation

BYLINE: Jackie Farwell BDN Staff

LENGTH: 890 words


A national hospital watchdog group has again ranked Maine's hospitals the safest
in the country.


Eighty percent, or 16 out of 20, Maine hospitals earned an "A" in the Hospital
Safety Score ratings released Wednesday by the Leapfrog Group, a national
patient safety organization.


Maine edged out Massachusetts for the No. 1 spot. Maine also topped the list
earlier this year, when the rankings were last updated in May.


The letter grades reflect the risk that a patient could be harmed by a
preventable medical error while hospitalized. Leapfrog, a nonprofit funded by
employers, assigns A, B, C, D and F grades to more than 2,500 U.S. hospitals.


Leapfrog urged patients to use the rankings to protect themselves from errors,
accidents, injuries and infections at hospitals. Up to 440,000 Americans die
annually from preventable hospital errors, making such errors the third leading
cause of death in the U.S., Leapfrog said in a press release, citing new
research published in the Journal of Patient Safety.


That figure is four times the estimate of a widely cited but dated Institute of
Medicine study, which said up to 98,000 Americans die each year from preventable
medical errors.


"We are burying a population the size of Miami every year from medical errors
that can be prevented," Leah Binder, Leapfrog's president and CEO, said in a
press release announcing the new scores. "A number of hospitals have improved by
one or even two grades, indicating hospitals are taking steps toward safer
practices, but these efforts aren't enough."


On average, hospitals nationally showed no improvement in their performance on
the 28 patient safety measures included in the score. The exception was hospital
adoption of computerized physician order entry, in which health practitioners
electronically enter instructions for patients' treatment.


Leapfrog assesses public data on measures including falls, bed sores and how
consistently hospitals follow recommended treatment protocols, such as
administering antibiotics to patients within an hour before surgery.


Two new measures were added to the scores this fall: catheter-associated urinary
tract infections and surgical site infections after major colon procedures.


Leapfrog rates only general hospitals. Specialty hospitals, such as cancer
centers, and critical access hospitals, which serve rural areas, are not
included.


In Maine, three hospitals saw their grades drop from this spring, while two
moved up in the rankings.


MaineGeneral's Augusta campus dropped from a B to a C, while its Waterville
campus fell from an A to a C. St. Joseph Hospital in Bangor earned a C, a
downgrade from an A in the May rankings.


Franklin Memorial Hospital in Farmington improved from a B to an A, while York
Hospital moved up to an A from a C.


All the other Maine hospitals graded earned A's.


"We're most pleased with the consistency of the reviews of our hospitals' high
quality care," Jeff Austin, vice president of government affairs and
communications for the Maine Hospital Association, said in an email.


Austin credited frontline caregivers and added that the quality division of the
federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services also ranked hospital care in
Maine the best in the country.


"Never-ending state and federal cuts imperil this success," he wrote.


But even top-performing hospitals still have room to make patients safer, Binder
said.


"Getting an A is not an end point, it's a beginning point, and hospitals should
be looking at everything they can do to improve," she said during a press call
about the new scores.


Of the 2,539 hospitals issued a Hospital Safety Score, 813 earned an "A," 661
earned a "B," 893 earned a "C," 150 earned a "D" and 22 earned an "F."


Neighboring New Hampshire was among the states with the smallest percentage of A
hospitals, along with Arkansas, Nebraska and New Mexico.


Some hospital officials have complained about Leapfrog's methods, saying they
suspected they were penalized for failing to participate in Leapfrog's voluntary
surveys, which the group incorporates in its assessments. Leapfrog has said that
participation has no bearing on a hospital's grade and that the organization is
proud of its transparent ranking system.


Leapfrog's scores are part of a growing effort nationally to help consumers
become better-informed health care shoppers. The federal government also is
looking more closely at patient safety data, making a push through Medicare and
Medicaid to pay health care providers based on the quality of care they offer.


A number of nonprofit groups and companies have begun offering rankings on
hospital quality. Consumer Reports also rates the safety of hospitals, while
U.S. News and World Report singles out hospitals as national and regional
leaders for certain types of care and procedures.


Each outfit devises its own criteria and scoring formulas, so hospitals may
perform well on one while flopping on another. For instance, Consumer Reports
tabulates the number of patients who are readmitted to the hospital shortly
after being discharged, while Leapfrog doesn't.


Take Bangor's St. Joseph Hospital, which fell to a C in Leapfrog's new rankings
while nearby Eastern Maine Medical Center earned an A. In the Consumer Reports
ranking, St. Joseph bested EMMC.


To view hospital grades and their performance on each measure, visit
hospitalsafetyscore.org.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Bangor Daily News

                              169 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Survey: Baptist among Florida's best hospitals;
Two Baptist locations also rated best among First Coast facilities

BYLINE: Charlie Patton

SECTION: Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 376 words


Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville and Baptist Medical Center South, which
share a license, are the highest-ranked hospitals in 2014 in Jacksonville and
the fourth-highest ranked hospital in Florida in the 25th annual U.S. News &
World Report's Best Hospitals rankings.

Baptist was nationally ranked in one speciality - 48th in endocrinology - and
had nine other high-performing specialties.

U.S. News ranks the top hospitals in 16 specialties from cancer to urology.

Here are the rankings for other Jacksonville-area hospitals:

- Mayo Clinic Florida: second in Jacksonville, eighth in the state, 12
high-performing specialties.

- UF Health Jacksonville: tied for third in Jacksonville, tied for 11th in the
state, nine high-performing specialties.

- St. Vincent's Medical Center Riverside: tied for third in Jacksonville, tied
for 11th in the state, nine high-performing specialties.

- St. Vincent's Medical Center Southside: fifth in Jacksonville, tied for 25th
in the state, one high-performing specialty.

- Flagler Hospital in St. Augustine: one high-performing speciality, tied for
25th in the state.

- Wolfson Children's Hospital: one nationally ranked specialty, 48th among
children's hospitals for pediatric neurology and neuroscience.

Hospitals that had no nationally ranked or high-performing specialities were not
ranked, although information about patient satisfaction rates is included in
U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals. A total of 144 of the approximately
5,000 U.S. hospitals evaluated were ranked in at least one specialty.

In a news release, U.S. News said that in evaluating hospitals, "the focus on
the most difficult patients has not changed."

For the first time, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., claimed the No. 1 spot
in the overall rankings, followed by Massachusetts General Hospital and Johns
Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center is No. 1 in
cancer treatment and the Cleveland Clinic is No. 1 in cardiology and heart
surgery.

In the 2013 rankings, Baptist and the Mayo Clinic were tied for first in the
city and fourth in the state, each with one nationally ranked speciality and 10
high-performing specialties.

To see all the rankings, go to http://health.usnews.com.

Charlie Patton: (904) 359-4413

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Florida Times-Union

                              170 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Massachesetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

Tier system could increase insurance co-pays on Cape

BYLINE: Cynthia McCormick, Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 859 words


Jan. 31--Under a tier system being promoted by the state Legislature, patients
on at least two health plans would have to pay more for care at Cape Cod
Hospital in Hyannis than if they went to hospitals in Fall River or Brighton.

Tiered-plan programs ask insured individuals to pick up a bigger share of the
cost at certain hospitals and doctors' offices in exchange for lower premiums.

Insurers say they base the ranking system on quality and cost, but local
hospital officials say insurers really consider only costs.

And those officials argue that the trend toward charging patients higher co-pays
or deductibles at different hospitals is unfair to Cape Cod residents.

"It's not fair to your membership on the Cape," Jack Lipomi, senior vice
president of managed care at Cape Cod Healthcare Inc., the parent company of
Cape Cod and Falmouth hospitals, said.

It's not as though patients can walk across the street to another hospital, he
said.

"We have extremely high quality here," Lipomi said. "This is the part where I
really have a problem with the program."

Lipomi has talked to Blue Cross Blue Shield officials about ranking Cape Cod
Hospital as a "basic benefits" hospital, which is the lowest of three groups in
its Blue Options product, he said.

Cape Cod Hospital has higher costs because the local health care wage index is
high and because it must make up the cost of caring for a large population on
Medicare and Medicaid, he said. The reimbursement for those government-funded
programs doesn't cover the cost of care, which is passed on to commercial
carriers, he added.

But insurance companies argue the rankings are legitimate.

"The quality measures are nationally accepted measures," said Tara Murray,
spokeswoman for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts. The rankings are based
on indicators that include the number of cases of surgical complications and
hospital-acquired infections, she said.

There is a level of quality hospitals must meet, she said. "Then we tier based
on cost."

The rankings directly affect patient pocketbooks.

For example, a Blue Options patient with no deductible who gets an MRI at Cape
Cod Hospital, which is in the "basic benefits tier," would pay $250, compared
with $150 at a "standard benefits" hospital such as Caritas Good Samaritan in
Brockton or $75 at an "enhanced benefits" hospital such as Caritas St. Elizabeth
Medical Center in Brighton.

Blue Options is marketed to employers who want to offer employees plans with
lower premiums, Murray said. "We want to provide choices to the employer
community," she said.

But tiering creates a lot of confusion, said Karen Granoff, senior director of
managed care policy of the Massachusetts Hospital Association. Rankings within a
single plan can change from year to year, and different insurers sometimes rank
the same hospitals differently, she said.

For instance, Cape Cod Hospital is listed in the lowest tiers for Blue Cross
Blue Shield Blue Options and for Harvard Pilgrim's Health Care Independence Plan
marketed to state employees and retirees.

But both Cape Cod and Falmouth hospitals' inpatient obstetric and adult
medical-surgical programs got top rankings from Tufts Health Plan's Navigator
plan, which means patients would pay the lowest co-pays out of three tiers.

The plans that also rank doctors heighten the confusion, Granoff said.

She referred to a case in which a patient paid a $25 co-pay to see a specialist
but had to pay $50 on a follow-up visit to see a lower-ranked partner in the
same practice.

Insurers and local hospital officials say the tiering program isn't selling all
that well on the Cape, although one woman called the Cape Cod Times to complain
about the Blue Options product.

"They're not forcing it on anybody," Lipomi said.

"I'm not sure we've really gotten many complaints on it," said Sharon Torgerson,
spokeswoman for Harvard Pilgrim Health Care.

The state Legislature wants to see insurers come up with more tiering products.

In health care legislation aimed at individuals and small businesses that went
into effect this month, all health carriers doing business in Massachusetts are
required to offer at least one tiered or "selective" network with a premium rate
at least 12 percent lower than the comprehensive network product.

"It's one of our fastest-growing products," Murray said.

But the unpopularity of tiered products on geographically isolated Cape Cod
means that section of the law won't promise much relief to Barnstable County
employers.

And employers on the Cape -- who are seeing premium increases of 20 percent to
50 percent -- are desperate for relief, said Wendy Northcross, executive
director of the Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce.

Blue Cross Blue Shield already was one of the higher-priced choices around, she
said. "They're all trying to figure out ways to skin the cat."

To see more of the Cape Cod Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.capecodonline.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110131-CA-Tier-system-could-increase-insurance-co-pays-on-Cape-0131-20110131

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                         Copyright 2011 Cape Code Times

                              171 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Goshen News (Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

Magazine ranks IU Goshen Hospital among best in Indiana

BYLINE: John Kline, Goshen News, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 836 words


Sept. 26--GOSHEN -- IU Health Goshen Hospital received a feather in its cap this
summer when U.S. News and World Report announced the hospital has been ranked
one of the best in the state for 2015-16.

Included as part of the 26th edition of the Best Hospitals list published by the
national magazine this past July, IU Health Goshen was ranked as the fifth-best
hospital in the state out of approximately 170 eligible hospitals.

"It was an excellent surprise," said IU Health Goshen President and Chief
Executive Officer Randy Christophel. "We didn't know it was coming, so it was a
complete surprise to us."

U.S. News looked at a number of criteria in the ranking including hospital
reputation, patient survival, patient safety and care-related factors such as
the amount of nurse staffing and the breadth of patient services.

According to the rankings, IU Health received a "high performing" rating in the
area of hip and knee replacement procedures.

"They're using publicly available data, so it's not something that we had to
submit or provide information for," Christophel said. "It's things they're
getting from the Medicare database, or billing information, outcomes data, etc.
They use that to generate their quality criteria and their outcomes criteria."

According to Ben Harder, chief of health analysis at U.S. News, the Best
Hospitals ranking utilizes consumer-friendly data and information with the
primary goal of helping patients with life-threatening or rare conditions
identify hospitals that excel in treating the most difficult cases.

"Patients deserve high-quality information on hospitals," Harder said in a
statement. "We strive to provide them with the most comprehensive data available
so they can make more informed decisions together with their doctor about where
to undergo treatment."

As for the impact of such rankings, Christophel said the affects are two-fold.

"For starters, it's great recognition for our physicians and other colleagues,"
Christophel said. "We know that they're doing excellent work, and to have an
outside organization say, 'You're doing great. You're doing excellent compared
to everybody else,' it's nice recognition for the physicians and colleagues."

Christophel said the rankings also help highlight areas where a hospital excels.

"The skills and capabilities in our orthopedic program are just exceptional and
growing," Christophel said. "Volumes are growing. Recognition is growing. That's
why we're adding new providers and new capacity."

Seven Indiana hospitals received either national or regional ranking from the
magazine, including Elkhart General Hospital.

Additional recognition

IU Health Goshen was also recognized for heart attack patient care, earning a
Platinum Performance Achievement Award for 2015 through the American College of
Cardiology's National Cardiovascular Data Registry.

The hospital was one of 319 nationwide to receive the honor out of a pool of
approximately 5,700. The award recognizes hospitals that consistently
demonstrate excellence in heart attack care by delivering timely, appropriate,
safe and defect free care.

It's the fourth year in a row the hospital has earned the award.

"Several years ago, we said we wanted to make Goshen the safest place in the
country to have a heart attack," said Mark Smucker, medical director of
cardiology services at the hospital. "This award, especially now that we have
received it for four years, means we are headed in the right direction. We are
pleased to see that the number of hospitals receiving this award is going up
each year. We find ourselves at the leading edge of a national movement for
positive change."

To receive the award the hospital was required to consistently follow treatment
guidelines set forth in the American College of Cardiology's ACTION Registry for
eight consecutive quarters and meet a 90 percent performance standard for
specific performance measures. Clinical guidelines assessed included:

--Quality of care provided to ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients

--Quality of care provided to non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients

--Patient safety

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a heart attack --
also called a myocardial infarction -- occurs when a blood clot in a coronary
artery partially or completely blocks blood flow to the heart muscle. The more
time that passes without treatment to restore blood flow, the greater the damage
to the heart muscle.

It's estimated more than 730,000 Americans suffer a heart attack each year.
That's approximately one heart attack every 43 seconds.

On the web

--For more information about Indiana's Best Hospitals rankings, visit the U.S.
News and World Report's Indiana rankings web page at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/area/in.

--To learn more about the signs and symptoms of a heart attack, visit
www.cdc.gov/heartdisease/signs_symptoms.htm.

___ (c)2015 the Goshen News (Goshen, Ind.) Visit the Goshen News (Goshen, Ind.)
at www.goshennews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150926-GW-Magazine-ranks-IU-Goshen-Hospital
-among-best-in-Indiana-0926-20150926

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GW


                           Copyright 2015 Goshen News

                              172 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report: Inova Mount Vernon Hospital Among Best in Washington
DC Metro

LENGTH: 303  words


July 15 -- Inova Mount Vernon Hospital has been ranked #13 in the Washington,
DC, metro area by U.S. News & World Report 2014-15. The hospital also ranked as
high-performing in Orthopedics. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings,
now in their 25th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients.

"We are proud to remain among the top 15 hospitals in Washington, DC. The
largest joint replacement center in the area, our orthopedics department
continues to maintain its well-known excellence. We strive for quality of
service each and every day, providing the best possible care to our patients,"
said Deborah Addo, CEO, Inova Mount Vernon Hospital.

Inova Mount Vernon Hospital also ranked among the top 20 hospitals in Virginia.

For 2014-15, U.S. News evaluated hospitals in 16 adult specialties and ranked
the top 50 in most of the specialties. Just three percent of the nearly 5,000
hospitals that were analyzed for Best Hospitals 2014-15 earned national ranking
in even one specialty.

U.S. News also recognizes hospitals that perform nearly at the level of their
nationally ranked peers and represent valuable regional sources of quality care.

"The data tell the story - a hospital that emerged from our analysis as one of
the best has much to be proud of," says U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery
Comarow. "A Best Hospital has demonstrated its expertise in treating the most
challenging patients."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk because of age or multiple health problems. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing
levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            September 8, 2013 Sunday

Magazine: Halifax Health has nation's 49th busiest ER

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 134  words


Ranking: Halifax has 49th busiest ER in U.S.

DAYTONA BEACH -- Halifax Health hospital system had 81,900 emergency room visits
over a one-year period, the 49th most of any hospital system in the nation,
ranking just ahead of Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta and just behind
Christus Spohn Hospital in Corpus Christi, Texas, according to a recently
published ranking by trade magazine Becker's Hospital Review.

Two Orlando hospital systems ranked in the top 10. Florida Hospital Orlando had
the highest number of visits in the nation at 206,800. Orlando Regional Medical
Center ranked No. 5.

At 89,000 square feet, Halifax Health, which hospitals in both Daytona Beach and
Port Orange, has the largest emergency room in the state of Florida.

-- Skyler Swisher

Magazine: Halifax Health has nation's 49th busiest ER

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2013 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2013 News-Journal Corporation

                              174 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                             August 21, 2016 Sunday
                               City Times Edition

MOFFITT CANCER CENTER RANKED NO. 6 HOSPITAL IN NATION FOR CANCER CARE

SECTION: TAMPA TRIBUNE; YOUR NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 450 words


Moffitt Cancer Center was recently ranked sixth on U.S. News & World Report's
Best Hospitals for Cancer rankings, which were released Aug. 2. This is up from
being ranked 18th last year and makes Moffitt the top-ranked hospital for cancer
care in the southeast and in Florida. The national Best Hospitals rankings
recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients, such
as those whose illnesses include underlying conditions, difficult procedures and
other medical issues. Moffitt has been nationally ranked by U.S. News & World
Report since 1999. Of the 902 hospitals evaluated for cancer care in the United
States, Moffitt's ranking places it in the top 1 percent.

* * *

Tampa General ranked No. 1 hospital in Tampa metro area

Tampa General Hospital was recently ranked the top hospital in the Tampa metro
area and one of the top 50 hospitals nationally in six medical specialties by
U.S. News & World Report. The hospital was ranked nationally in six medical
specialties: cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery, nephrology, pulmonology and
urology. Tampa General also received high performing ratings in three medical
specialties: geriatrics, neurology and neurosurgery and orthopedics. The annual
U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in its 27th year, recognize hospitals
that excel in treating the most challenging patients. The rankings help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialities,
procedures and conditions. For 2016-2017, 153 hospitals were ranked in at least
one specialty, while 1,628 received a high performing rating in one or more
specialties, procedures or conditions.

* * *

Tampa student attends, graduates from Space Academy in Alabama

James Le of Tampa recently attended and graduated from Space Academy at the U.S.
Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, Ala. The weeklong education program
promotes science, technology, engineering and math while training students and
adults with hands-on activities and missions based on teamwork, leadership and
problem-solving. Le was part of the program specifically designed for trainees
who have a particular interest in space exploration. He spent the week training
with a team that flew a simulated space mission to the International Space
Station. Once aboard the International Space Station, the crew participated in
experiments and successfully complete a spacewalk. Space Camp operates
year-round and uses astronaut training techniques to engage trainees in
real-world applications of STEM subjects. Students sleep in quarters designed to
resemble the Space Station and train in simulators like those used by NASA.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO - Courtesy of Eileen Sengstock: Apollo Beach Woman's Club
presents new board: Apollo Beach Woman's Club named its board members for
2016-17. The club was founded in 1959 and has a membership of about 150. It
meets once a month and its mission is to provide scholarships and make
charitable contributions to families needing assistance. Pictured are Phyllis
Elsberry, parliamentarian; Stephanie Betz, president; Katherine Cintron, first
vice president of programs; Claudia Gassett, second vice president of
membership; Sharon Vasquez, third vice president of membership meetings; Barbara
Allaert and Nancy Vance, treasurer. Incoming secretary Cynthia Lee was absent.
PHOTO - Courtesy of Jay Sparkman: Sun City Center Interfaith Council presents
grant to veterans group for VA Hospital transportation: Linda Maslyk, vice
president of the Sun City Center Interfaith Council presents a check to Mike
Albanese of the SCC Disabled American Veterans to support van service to
transport veterans to James A. Haley VA Hospital in Tampa. Also pictured, from
left, are Jim Schwartz, Bob Gerdes and Darrell Katz. PHOTO - Courtesy of Suzanne
House: Local vegan organization donates food to Feed-A-Bull food pantry: Suzanne
House and Trevor Chin of Florida Voices for Animals stopped by the Feed-A-Bull
food pantry at the University of South Florida to deliver several large boxes of
nutritious vegan food. Feed-A-Bull was created to address food insecurity by
providing supplemental food to enrolled students in need. Florida Voices for
Animals is a nonprofit organization in the Tampa Bay area that is dedicated to
exposing animal abuse and promoting a vegan lifestyle. PHOTO - Courtesy of Kelly
Flannery: South Tampa Chamber of Commerce hosts new teachers at annual breakfast
banquet: The South Tampa Chamber of Commerce welcomed 130 new Area 1 teachers
and principals at its annual New Teachers Breakfast on Aug. 5. Teachers were
greeted by Hillsborough County Commissioner Sandy Murman, Area 1 superintendent
Lisa Yost, school board member Sally Harris and Tampa city council members Harry
Cohen and Guido Maniscalco. The keynote speaker was superintendent Jeff Eakins.
Each teacher was presented with a gift bag filled with school supplies donated
by chamber members. The principals received gift bags provided by Hyde Park
Village and centerpieces made from school supplies donated by the Tampa Bay Arts
& Education Network. The Tampa Bay Rays also donated 100 backpacks filled with
supplies from the chamber that will be given to South Tampa students later this
month. The event is hosted each year by the chamber's Education Committee, which
acts as a liaison between the business community and local schools. In addition
to the annual breakfast the committee provides volunteers for the Great American
Teach-In and has a scholarship program open to graduating seniors from Plant and
Robinson high schools. PHOTO - Courtesy of Marcia Smith: Orange Blossom Garden
Club awards annual scholarship winner: The Orange Blossom Garden Club held its
end-of-the-year luncheon at Ulele in June. The club announced its annual
scholarship winner, Alexandra Garner, and presented her with a check for $500.
She is a graduate of Lennard High School and will attend Santa Fe College for
her associate's degree, then transfer to the University of Florida to major in
plant science. Garner's goal is to become a plant pathologist working with the
UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences. She would like to someday open
an ornamental plant nursery.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

California: Hospital Ratings &#226;&#128;&#148; Fast Becoming More Popular
&#226;&#128;&#148; Don&#226;&#128;&#153;t Paint Whole Picture, Experts Say

LENGTH: 287  words

DATELINE: New York



 Sacramento: California Healthline, The State of California has issued the
following news release:







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com
 Though they can be a good place for a patient to start -- and can help
hospitals market themselves -- star ratings and other rankings don't take into
account how complex such health systems are, experts warn.





 The San Diego Union-Tribune: Do Hospital Rankings Benefit Consumers?

 On Tuesday, U.S. News  & World Report released its 27th annual "Best Hospital"
rankings, including an honor roll of 20 hospitals from around the country --
such as the Mayo Clinic, Cleveland Clinic and UCLA Medical Center. ... Less than
a week ago, the federal government released its first-ever ratings system for
overall hospital quality, which in many cases seemed at odds with the U.S. News
rankings. For example, the government placed Paradise Valley Hospital in
National City above the usually vaunted UC San Diego Medical Center. (Smith,
8/1)



 In other hospital news --



 KPCC: Tips On Getting Along With Hospital Staff

 What if they get the wrong paperwork, medication, surgery -- the list goes on.
And the "what ifs" can lead friends and family members to overstep their bounds
with hospital staff. Conversely, nurses may be more concerned with providing
medical care than communicating with patients, a skill they may not have learned
in nursing school. But according to a Wall Street Journal article, that may be
changing. Programs and workshops are cropping up to help nurses communicate with
patients and their loved ones, and hospital staff have some recommendations on
how to get the best care. (Morrison and Sy, 8/1)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Tonawanda News (North Tonawanda, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 28, 2011 Friday

Catholic Health garners top state ranking

BYLINE: David J. Hill, Tonawanda News, North Tonawanda, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words


Jan. 28--Catholic Health System, which operates Kenmore Mercy Hospital and three
others in Western New York, was named the top integrated health network in the
state.

The list of the nation's most integrated health care networks -- the 2011 SDI
IHN 100 -- was published in a recent issue of Modern Healthcare magazine.

In addition to being tops in New York, Catholic Health ranks third in the
Northeast and 30th in the nation.

"A significant amount of effort has gone into this achievement...and we are
thrilled that we have moved up in the rankings and acknowledged as one of the
best health care systems in the nation," Kenmore Mercy Hospital President and
CEO Jim Millard said.

"This recognition is one more affirmation of the work all our associates and
physicians at Kenmore Mercy Hospital and all of Catholic Health do to redesign
our health care model and improve care, access and quality for our patients,"
Millard added.

This is the fourth consecutive year Catholic Health has made the SDI IHN 100
list. Catholic Health jumped 21 places since last year's No. 51 national ranking
.

"Our consistent improvement over the last four years is another indicator that
we continue to progress as a high performing health system," said Joseph
McDonald, Catholic Health's president and CEO. "The bar moved even higher in
this year's rankings, as we compete among the best health systems nationally."

The ranking honors the most integrated health care networks in the nation. The
networks are graded on operations, quality, range of services offered and
efficiency. In all, 576 health care systems nationwide were evaluated. Sentara
Healthcare in Norfolk, Va., topped the list.

Catholic Health has improved significantly in the rankings since it first
cracked the top 100 several years ago, ranking 96th. A year later it moved up to
64th.

Catholic Health officials said third-party rankings such as the SDI IHN 100 list
helps the organization measure itself against national benchmarks.

The survey is conducted by SDI Health, a health care data and consulting firm
based in Plymouth Meeting, Pa.

Kaleida Health, which operates DeGraff Memorial Hospital in North Tonawanda,
ranked 87th on the national list.

To see more of the Tonawanda News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tonawanda-news.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Tonawanda News, North
Tonawanda, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110128-TT-Catholic-Health-garners-top-state-ranking-0128-20110128

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TT


                         Copyright 2011 Tonawanda News

                              177 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Medical centers here climb in U.S. rankings Barnes-Jewish, WU School of Medicine
rank No. 8.

BYLINE: BY CYNTHIA BILLHARTZ GREGORIAN cbillhartz@post-dispatch.com >
314-340-8114

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: 0


Barnes-Jewish Hospital and Washington University School of Medicine continue
climbing U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll of America's Best Hospitals. This
year, they're ranked eighth, up from ninth last year and 12th in 2008.

Only 14 hospitals and medical institutions out of 4,852 nationwide made the
Honor Roll. Barnes-Jewish is the only one in Missouri to make it for the 18th
consecutive year.

The list is reserved for medical centers with high rankings in at least six
specialties, and Barnes Jewish ranked in the top 10 in 15 of them: orthopedics,
pulmonology, diabetes and endocrinology, kidney disorders, ear, nose and throat,
neurology & neurosurgery. Eight other specialties at the hospital made the top
20.

To be considered for the list, hospitals must meet at least one of the following
four criteria: be a teaching hospital, or be affiliated with a medical school;
have at least 200 beds; have 100 or more beds and the availability of four or
more types of technology considered important for a high-quality medical
facility such as a PET/CT scanner and certain precision radiation therapies.

Next, the hospitals had to meet a volume requirement, individually calculated
for each specialty.

This narrows the pool of eligible candidates to about 1,800 hospitals.

According to Avery Comarow, health rankings editor for U.S. News & World Report,
an independent research company in North Carolina, the Research Triangle
Institute, manages the survey, collects data and crunches the numbers.

Among other things, Comarow said, "they factor in death rates, reputation,
patient safety and a set of quality-related measures including volume, number of
nurses and the amount of technology that we consider important in that
specialty."

Being a nurse magnet hospital also affected rankings, he added.

"We don't include patient satisfaction because there aren't any studies that
show that how happy patients are with a hospital has anything to do with quality
of care," Comarow said.

The magazine ranked St. Louis University Hospital 21st for geriatrics.

"We've been rated high consistently for geriatrics since the rankings began,"
said Laura Keller, director of communications for SLU Hospital. "And geriatrics
encompasses a host of disciplines so it's really special for us."

The guide is available online at usnews.com/besthospitals. The August issue of
the magazine hits the newsstands July 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Study: Hospital rankings may rely on faulty data

LENGTH: 1281  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 The October 2016 issue of The Joint Commission Journal on Quality and Patient
Safety, features the article "Consumer Rankings and Health Care: Toward
Validation and Transparency" by Bala Hota, MD, MPH, and co-authors, Rush
University Medical Center (RUMC), Chicago. After RUMC received a lower than
expected ranking for patient safety in the 2015-16 U.S. News & World Report's
(USNWR) "Best Hospitals" rankings, the authors compared the data that USNWR used
for their hospital to their own internal data.





 The authors found that the USNWR data showed many more patient safety events,
such as pressure ulcers, almost all of which had actually been present at the
patient's admission. Suspecting a broader problem, Hota et al. analyzed data on
a sample of hospitals and found that RUMC was not the only organization with
discrepancies in data. False-positive event rates were common among
high-transfer and high-volume hospitals.



 The authors conclude more transparency and validation is needed for
consumer-based benchmarking methods. In response to these findings and concerns
raised by others, USNWR made changes to its methodology and data sources in
2016.



 In an accompanying editorial, "The Quality Measurement Crisis: An Urgent Need
for Methodological Standards and Transparency," David M. Shahian, MD, Elizabeth
Mort, MD, MPH, and Peter J. Pronovost, MD, PhD, reflect on the Hota et al.
article to conclude, "Just as health care providers have ethical and moral
responsibilities to the public they serve, rating organizations and journalists
that grade providers have similar obligations--in their case, to ensure measure
validity and methodological transparency."



 RUMC further explored the importance of rating organization's validity and
methodological transparency in the following essay, "Hospital Rankings Have Room
for Improvement



 Hospital Rankings Have Room for Improvement



 Hospitals that care for sickest of sick found to be unfairly ranked



 When consumers make what can be life-or-death decisions about where to seek
health care, they often look to the numerous online hospital rating services
that are available, including the government-sponsored Hospital Compare,
Consumer Reports, and Leapfrog.



 Rating hospital quality is not as simple as rating the quality of a car,
though. One reason is that patients vary in terms of how sick they are when they
arrive at the hospital or undergo surgery. Older patients with multiple health
problems or advanced diseases are more likely to develop an infection or
complication than younger, healthier patients -- even though they receive the
same quality of care.



 The best hospital rating systems try to account for severity of illness.
However, a Rush data expert's recent analysis of U.S. News & World Report's
"Best Hospitals" rankings shows that these rating systems often are dependent on
faulty data sets and performance metrics.



 Something didn't add up



 Rush University Medical Center consistently has scored high on patient safety
measures, according to most rankings. In fact, Rush University Medical Center
has received nine consecutive "A" grades for safety from the Leapfrog Group,
putting it among fewer than 100 hospitals in the country that have received the
highest possible grade each time since Leapfrog began issuing the semi-annual
ratings in 2012.



 But last year U.S. News "Best Hospitals" issue gave Rush the publication's
lowest ranking for patient safety (one out of five). To learn what was behind
the discrepancy, Rush's quality team - Tom Webb, Bala Hota, MD, MPH, and Omar
Lateef, DO - dug into the U.S. News data and methodology.



 "When we compared the data that U.S. News used for our hospital to our own
internal data, we found big differences," says Hota, Rush's chief research
informatics officer. "U.S. News showed many more patient safety events than our
actual rates."



 For example, U.S. News data showed that 25 patients at Rush had developed
pressure ulcers, or bed sores, over a particular time period. In fact, only one
patient had developed a pressure ulcer while at Rush.



 Suspecting a broader problem, they analyzed data on a sample of hospitals and
found that Rush was not the only organization inaccurately unfairly ranked. Hota
reported the results of his study in the October issue of the Joint Commission
Journal on Quality and Patient Safety.



 High demand for hospitals' services skew safety scores down



 Two hospital characteristics tended to negatively skew U.S. News patient safety
scores: Taking care of large numbers of patients (i.e., high volumes) or
admitting a high percentage of patients transferred from other hospitals.



 Webb, Hota and Lateef found that the U.S. News data set was missing key
information, such as whether patients with pressure ulcers had these sores when
they were admitted to Rush. If conditions were present prior to arrival, Rush
should not have been penalized.



 Large referral hospitals such as Rush, which provide highly specialized care
for the sickest patients and most complex conditions, also tend to have high
volumes and high transfer rates. "Rush is the biggest transfer center in
Illinois," Hota says. "If somebody is sick in a community hospital and not
getting better, that hospital knows Rush is a reliable place to transfer the
patient to."



 'Data is not perfect'



 Rush notified U.S. News about the Rush findings in 2015and U.S. News made some
revisions to its data methodology. As a result, Rush's patient safety score
increased to four out of a possible five in the 2016-2017 U.S. News ratings
released in August.



 "U.S. News was very responsive to our findings, and the Rush community should
take pride in the fact that we take care of very sick patients very well," says
Lateef, Rush's chief medical officer. "When you adjust for patient acuity
(severity of patients' conditions), our outcomes data are among the best in the
country."



 The Rush analysis of the U.S. News ratings confirms what many experts have
suspected. "People have argued and theorized that if you take care of a lot of
very sick people or have a lot of transfers, then the data could be biased,"
Hota says. "This study proves that. It shows that data is not perfect, and
misunderstandings in the data can negatively portray a hospital."



 Acknowledging that hospital rankings have room for improvement, U.S. News is
convening a panel of experts in November to discuss how to better evaluate
hospital quality, safety and performance, according to a press release.



 Transparency Is a Two-Way Street



 Lateef and Hota, and the quality team believe that right now the rules used by
hospital rating systems are too complex for most consumers to navigate. That's
why they are urging U.S. News and other hospital rating systems to be more
transparent about how they rate hospital quality, so that individual hospitals
can validate the accuracy of their scores and work with the rating organization
to adjust the scores as appropriate.



 "The companies that are producing these ratings have to be more transparent,"
Hota says. "Their methodology should be reproducible and easily understood."



 In the meantime, Rush will continue to measure, track, and share patient safety
data rigorously, and use that date to drive improvements to make Rush's care
even safer. "We consider quality to be the most important part of patient care,"
Lateef says. "We believe in being transparent about quality so we can continue
marching towards improvement."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Study: Hospital rankings may rely on faulty data

LENGTH: 1281  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 The October 2016 issue of The Joint Commission Journal on Quality and Patient
Safety, features the article "Consumer Rankings and Health Care: Toward
Validation and Transparency" by Bala Hota, MD, MPH, and co-authors, Rush
University Medical Center (RUMC), Chicago. After RUMC received a lower than
expected ranking for patient safety in the 2015-16 U.S. News & World Report's
(USNWR) "Best Hospitals" rankings, the authors compared the data that USNWR used
for their hospital to their own internal data.





 The authors found that the USNWR data showed many more patient safety events,
such as pressure ulcers, almost all of which had actually been present at the
patient's admission. Suspecting a broader problem, Hota et al. analyzed data on
a sample of hospitals and found that RUMC was not the only organization with
discrepancies in data. False-positive event rates were common among
high-transfer and high-volume hospitals.



 The authors conclude more transparency and validation is needed for
consumer-based benchmarking methods. In response to these findings and concerns
raised by others, USNWR made changes to its methodology and data sources in
2016.



 In an accompanying editorial, "The Quality Measurement Crisis: An Urgent Need
for Methodological Standards and Transparency," David M. Shahian, MD, Elizabeth
Mort, MD, MPH, and Peter J. Pronovost, MD, PhD, reflect on the Hota et al.
article to conclude, "Just as health care providers have ethical and moral
responsibilities to the public they serve, rating organizations and journalists
that grade providers have similar obligations--in their case, to ensure measure
validity and methodological transparency."



 RUMC further explored the importance of rating organization's validity and
methodological transparency in the following essay, "Hospital Rankings Have Room
for Improvement



 Hospital Rankings Have Room for Improvement



 Hospitals that care for sickest of sick found to be unfairly ranked



 When consumers make what can be life-or-death decisions about where to seek
health care, they often look to the numerous online hospital rating services
that are available, including the government-sponsored Hospital Compare,
Consumer Reports, and Leapfrog.



 Rating hospital quality is not as simple as rating the quality of a car,
though. One reason is that patients vary in terms of how sick they are when they
arrive at the hospital or undergo surgery. Older patients with multiple health
problems or advanced diseases are more likely to develop an infection or
complication than younger, healthier patients -- even though they receive the
same quality of care.



 The best hospital rating systems try to account for severity of illness.
However, a Rush data expert's recent analysis of U.S. News & World Report's
"Best Hospitals" rankings shows that these rating systems often are dependent on
faulty data sets and performance metrics.



 Something didn't add up



 Rush University Medical Center consistently has scored high on patient safety
measures, according to most rankings. In fact, Rush University Medical Center
has received nine consecutive "A" grades for safety from the Leapfrog Group,
putting it among fewer than 100 hospitals in the country that have received the
highest possible grade each time since Leapfrog began issuing the semi-annual
ratings in 2012.



 But last year U.S. News "Best Hospitals" issue gave Rush the publication's
lowest ranking for patient safety (one out of five). To learn what was behind
the discrepancy, Rush's quality team - Tom Webb, Bala Hota, MD, MPH, and Omar
Lateef, DO - dug into the U.S. News data and methodology.



 "When we compared the data that U.S. News used for our hospital to our own
internal data, we found big differences," says Hota, Rush's chief research
informatics officer. "U.S. News showed many more patient safety events than our
actual rates."



 For example, U.S. News data showed that 25 patients at Rush had developed
pressure ulcers, or bed sores, over a particular time period. In fact, only one
patient had developed a pressure ulcer while at Rush.



 Suspecting a broader problem, they analyzed data on a sample of hospitals and
found that Rush was not the only organization inaccurately unfairly ranked. Hota
reported the results of his study in the October issue of the Joint Commission
Journal on Quality and Patient Safety.



 High demand for hospitals' services skew safety scores down



 Two hospital characteristics tended to negatively skew U.S. News patient safety
scores: Taking care of large numbers of patients (i.e., high volumes) or
admitting a high percentage of patients transferred from other hospitals.



 Webb, Hota and Lateef found that the U.S. News data set was missing key
information, such as whether patients with pressure ulcers had these sores when
they were admitted to Rush. If conditions were present prior to arrival, Rush
should not have been penalized.



 Large referral hospitals such as Rush, which provide highly specialized care
for the sickest patients and most complex conditions, also tend to have high
volumes and high transfer rates. "Rush is the biggest transfer center in
Illinois," Hota says. "If somebody is sick in a community hospital and not
getting better, that hospital knows Rush is a reliable place to transfer the
patient to."



 'Data is not perfect'



 Rush notified U.S. News about the Rush findings in 2015and U.S. News made some
revisions to its data methodology. As a result, Rush's patient safety score
increased to four out of a possible five in the 2016-2017 U.S. News ratings
released in August.



 "U.S. News was very responsive to our findings, and the Rush community should
take pride in the fact that we take care of very sick patients very well," says
Lateef, Rush's chief medical officer. "When you adjust for patient acuity
(severity of patients' conditions), our outcomes data are among the best in the
country."



 The Rush analysis of the U.S. News ratings confirms what many experts have
suspected. "People have argued and theorized that if you take care of a lot of
very sick people or have a lot of transfers, then the data could be biased,"
Hota says. "This study proves that. It shows that data is not perfect, and
misunderstandings in the data can negatively portray a hospital."



 Acknowledging that hospital rankings have room for improvement, U.S. News is
convening a panel of experts in November to discuss how to better evaluate
hospital quality, safety and performance, according to a press release.



 Transparency Is a Two-Way Street



 Lateef and Hota, and the quality team believe that right now the rules used by
hospital rating systems are too complex for most consumers to navigate. That's
why they are urging U.S. News and other hospital rating systems to be more
transparent about how they rate hospital quality, so that individual hospitals
can validate the accuracy of their scores and work with the rating organization
to adjust the scores as appropriate.



 "The companies that are producing these ratings have to be more transparent,"
Hota says. "Their methodology should be reproducible and easily understood."



 In the meantime, Rush will continue to measure, track, and share patient safety
data rigorously, and use that date to drive improvements to make Rush's care
even safer. "We consider quality to be the most important part of patient care,"
Lateef says. "We believe in being transparent about quality so we can continue
marching towards improvement."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Study: Hospital rankings may rely on faulty data

LENGTH: 1281  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 The October 2016 issue of The Joint Commission Journal on Quality and Patient
Safety, features the article "Consumer Rankings and Health Care: Toward
Validation and Transparency" by Bala Hota, MD, MPH, and co-authors, Rush
University Medical Center (RUMC), Chicago. After RUMC received a lower than
expected ranking for patient safety in the 2015-16 U.S. News & World Report's
(USNWR) "Best Hospitals" rankings, the authors compared the data that USNWR used
for their hospital to their own internal data.





 The authors found that the USNWR data showed many more patient safety events,
such as pressure ulcers, almost all of which had actually been present at the
patient's admission. Suspecting a broader problem, Hota et al. analyzed data on
a sample of hospitals and found that RUMC was not the only organization with
discrepancies in data. False-positive event rates were common among
high-transfer and high-volume hospitals.



 The authors conclude more transparency and validation is needed for
consumer-based benchmarking methods. In response to these findings and concerns
raised by others, USNWR made changes to its methodology and data sources in
2016.



 In an accompanying editorial, "The Quality Measurement Crisis: An Urgent Need
for Methodological Standards and Transparency," David M. Shahian, MD, Elizabeth
Mort, MD, MPH, and Peter J. Pronovost, MD, PhD, reflect on the Hota et al.
article to conclude, "Just as health care providers have ethical and moral
responsibilities to the public they serve, rating organizations and journalists
that grade providers have similar obligations--in their case, to ensure measure
validity and methodological transparency."



 RUMC further explored the importance of rating organization's validity and
methodological transparency in the following essay, "Hospital Rankings Have Room
for Improvement



 Hospital Rankings Have Room for Improvement



 Hospitals that care for sickest of sick found to be unfairly ranked



 When consumers make what can be life-or-death decisions about where to seek
health care, they often look to the numerous online hospital rating services
that are available, including the government-sponsored Hospital Compare,
Consumer Reports, and Leapfrog.



 Rating hospital quality is not as simple as rating the quality of a car,
though. One reason is that patients vary in terms of how sick they are when they
arrive at the hospital or undergo surgery. Older patients with multiple health
problems or advanced diseases are more likely to develop an infection or
complication than younger, healthier patients -- even though they receive the
same quality of care.



 The best hospital rating systems try to account for severity of illness.
However, a Rush data expert's recent analysis of U.S. News & World Report's
"Best Hospitals" rankings shows that these rating systems often are dependent on
faulty data sets and performance metrics.



 Something didn't add up



 Rush University Medical Center consistently has scored high on patient safety
measures, according to most rankings. In fact, Rush University Medical Center
has received nine consecutive "A" grades for safety from the Leapfrog Group,
putting it among fewer than 100 hospitals in the country that have received the
highest possible grade each time since Leapfrog began issuing the semi-annual
ratings in 2012.



 But last year U.S. News "Best Hospitals" issue gave Rush the publication's
lowest ranking for patient safety (one out of five). To learn what was behind
the discrepancy, Rush's quality team - Tom Webb, Bala Hota, MD, MPH, and Omar
Lateef, DO - dug into the U.S. News data and methodology.



 "When we compared the data that U.S. News used for our hospital to our own
internal data, we found big differences," says Hota, Rush's chief research
informatics officer. "U.S. News showed many more patient safety events than our
actual rates."



 For example, U.S. News data showed that 25 patients at Rush had developed
pressure ulcers, or bed sores, over a particular time period. In fact, only one
patient had developed a pressure ulcer while at Rush.



 Suspecting a broader problem, they analyzed data on a sample of hospitals and
found that Rush was not the only organization inaccurately unfairly ranked. Hota
reported the results of his study in the October issue of the Joint Commission
Journal on Quality and Patient Safety.



 High demand for hospitals' services skew safety scores down



 Two hospital characteristics tended to negatively skew U.S. News patient safety
scores: Taking care of large numbers of patients (i.e., high volumes) or
admitting a high percentage of patients transferred from other hospitals.



 Webb, Hota and Lateef found that the U.S. News data set was missing key
information, such as whether patients with pressure ulcers had these sores when
they were admitted to Rush. If conditions were present prior to arrival, Rush
should not have been penalized.



 Large referral hospitals such as Rush, which provide highly specialized care
for the sickest patients and most complex conditions, also tend to have high
volumes and high transfer rates. "Rush is the biggest transfer center in
Illinois," Hota says. "If somebody is sick in a community hospital and not
getting better, that hospital knows Rush is a reliable place to transfer the
patient to."



 'Data is not perfect'



 Rush notified U.S. News about the Rush findings in 2015and U.S. News made some
revisions to its data methodology. As a result, Rush's patient safety score
increased to four out of a possible five in the 2016-2017 U.S. News ratings
released in August.



 "U.S. News was very responsive to our findings, and the Rush community should
take pride in the fact that we take care of very sick patients very well," says
Lateef, Rush's chief medical officer. "When you adjust for patient acuity
(severity of patients' conditions), our outcomes data are among the best in the
country."



 The Rush analysis of the U.S. News ratings confirms what many experts have
suspected. "People have argued and theorized that if you take care of a lot of
very sick people or have a lot of transfers, then the data could be biased,"
Hota says. "This study proves that. It shows that data is not perfect, and
misunderstandings in the data can negatively portray a hospital."



 Acknowledging that hospital rankings have room for improvement, U.S. News is
convening a panel of experts in November to discuss how to better evaluate
hospital quality, safety and performance, according to a press release.



 Transparency Is a Two-Way Street



 Lateef and Hota, and the quality team believe that right now the rules used by
hospital rating systems are too complex for most consumers to navigate. That's
why they are urging U.S. News and other hospital rating systems to be more
transparent about how they rate hospital quality, so that individual hospitals
can validate the accuracy of their scores and work with the rating organization
to adjust the scores as appropriate.



 "The companies that are producing these ratings have to be more transparent,"
Hota says. "Their methodology should be reproducible and easily understood."



 In the meantime, Rush will continue to measure, track, and share patient safety
data rigorously, and use that date to drive improvements to make Rush's care
even safer. "We consider quality to be the most important part of patient care,"
Lateef says. "We believe in being transparent about quality so we can continue
marching towards improvement."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              June 6, 2011 Monday

Study: Hospital rankings might mislead patients

BYLINE: ERIK HOGSTROM TH staff writer ehogstrom@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 819 words


choosing a hospital If not by publication or Internet ratings, how can patients
choose the best hospital? "The first step is to make sure the hospital actually
has the services you need -- not all hospitals are created equal," said Russell
Knight, president and CEO of Mercy Medical Center-Dubuque. "A second step -- in
noncritical situations -- is to consult with trusted caregivers, such as
physicians, nurses, therapists, pharmacists, etc. They often have great insight
into hospital performance. Of course, most patients will want to choose a
hospital where their preferred physician is comfortable practicing. Another step
is to verify insurance coverage.

Relatively few health plans in our area have restricted networks, but some do,
so it is worth a phone call to the hospital business office, the health plan or
the employer's human resources department to find out if any restrictions
apply." Hospital rating services recently took issue with a published medical
report suggesting publicly marketed rankings often fail to identify all
hospitals of equal quality. The study in the Archives of Surgery found little
difference in mortality rates for three cancer procedures performed at either
hospitals highly rated by private services or other high-volume hospitals. The
study shows for three types of cancer surgery, "America's 50 Best Hospitals" as
ranked by Internet-based HealthGrades, are no better than the other hospitals
once the number of patients they treat is taken into account. Based on U.S. News
& World Report rankings, the Top 50 hospitals trumped the rest on just one
surgery: removal of the colon or part of it. "Our findings show that both
ratings fail to identify equally well-performing hospitals of similar volume,"
Dr. Nicholas Osborne, of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, and colleagues
write in the study. "Because these ratings list only a selected number of best
hospitals," the researchers add, "these consumer aids may dissuade patients from
seeking care at a closer, high-volume, equal-quality hospital." HealthGrades
disagrees. "While we're encouraged by the study authors' attempt to help
patients find accurate quality information, in this case the study may have the
opposite effect and might actually discourage patients from getting the
information they need to make critically important health care decisions," said
Dr. Rick May, vice president of HealthGrades' Accelerated Clinical Excellence.
Hospitals often tout their services by highlighting accreditation, rankings and
awards, but do patients know what these accolades mean? Here is a look at all
three: Accreditation An accreditation is a certification of competency, often
bestowed after a comprehensive survey process. An organization called the Joint
Commission has accredited hospitals for more than 60 years. Approximately 4,168
hospitals hold accreditation through the program. "Accreditation is important,"
said Russell Knight, president and CEO of Mercy Medical Center-Dubuque. "It is
based on rigorous published standards and is granted only after an on-site
survey and assessment of the organization's performance in relation to those
standards. It's possible for consumers to gain some insight into the quality of
a hospital by investigating its accreditation status." Rankings Hospitals are
ranked in various ways. "Finley's patient-care quality performance metrics are
utilized by numerous government and private health-care rating resources that
publish public data to assist patients in selecting a quality hospital," said
David Brandon, the Dubuque hospital's president and CEO. Consumer Reports,
HealthGrades, Thomson-Reuters and U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals are
among the organizations that routinely rate or rank hospitals. Some of these are
completely independent ratings of hospital performance. Others are rating
services purchased by the hospitals. "Patients should consider the data and
methodology of each before using the rankings to select a hospital," said Sal
Bognanni, executive director of Iowa Health System's Center for Clinical
Transformation, which works with senior affiliate The Finley Hospital to improve
patient care. The "Hospital Compare" service provided by Medicare offers a type
of rating, too. "With regard to this last example, consumers can quickly and
easily construct side-by-side comparisons of hospital performance on many key
indicators of quality, safety and satisfaction," Knight said. The Medicare
service is located online at www. hospitalcompare.hhs.gov. Awards "We receive
literally dozens of awards each year," Knight said. "Most are never brought to
the public's attention because we would be required to pay a fee for the
privilege of advertising them." Knight puts less stock in awards that are
purchased than in awards that are non-commercialized. "But it's virtually
impossible for the general public to know which is which," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday

Parkway: Ranking just a start

BYLINE: Deangelo McDaniel, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words


Sep. 16--Amidst the celebratory cheers Tuesday, Parkway Medical Center Chief
Executive Officer Tim McGill was thinking about the future.

It wasn't that he wasn't proud Data Advantage ranked Parkway among the top 1
percent of hospitals in the nation.

It wasn't that 28th national ranking among 4,500 hospitals for quality,
efficiency, affordability and patient satisfaction didn't make him smile.

It's just he realized there are more challenges for the investor-owned hospital
that opened on the Beltline in 1974.

That's one of the reasons McGill and Capella Healthcare President Tom Anderson
said the national ranking was a beginning, not at end.

For now, McGill and Anderson said they want area residents to know they don't
have to travel outside Decatur for good health care.

"It's right here at Parkway," McGill said, just moments before hospital
officials lowered a huge banner reading: "#28 Decatur's nationally ranked
hospital."

About 400 people, including hospital employees, public officials and community
leaders, cheered when McGill announced Parkway's ranking.

"This places us at the top tier and it's all because of you," McGill said to
employees.

After the announcement, Anderson talked about Parkway's future that includes
expansion.

He said the hospital is looking at constructing a medical complex to house
between eight and 12 new physicians.

"We owe it to the community to continue to look at providing quality service and
we're committed to doing that," Anderson said.

McGill said the complex will allow Parkway to expand services such as cardiac
rehabilitation, wound care and a sleep center.

"This will also allow for the opportunity to recruit new physicians," the CEO
said.

The proposals will expand on changes Parkway made since Capella acquired the
hospital in 2007.

In keeping with the national trend, Parkway opened an outpatient surgery unit in
April.

The unit has four suites with the capacity to treat 10 patients. McGill said
outpatient surgery is up 4 percent during the same period in 2008.

Another significant change came in June with the addition of what Parkway calls
the fast track emergency room the hospital operates Saturday through Monday.

The goal is to make sure every patient who comes through the emergency room is
screened and receiving services within 30 minutes.

McGill said the process has allowed Parkway to streamline patients with minor
problems and keep patients with more serious injuries waiting less.

"We've been pleased and we'll evaluate it at the end of six months," he said.
"Our overall goal is to improve patient access."

To see more of The Decatur Daily, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.decaturdaily.com Copyright (c) 2009, The Decatur Daily, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090916-DD-Parkway-Ranking-just-a-start-0916

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2009 The Decatur Daily

                              183 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 21, 2012 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

John Muir Health: U.S. News & World Report Ranks John Muir Health's Medical
Centers among Bay Area, State and Nation's Best

LENGTH: 599  words


New Delhi, July 21 -- John Muir Medical Center, Walnut Creek has been ranked one
of the nation's top hospitals for the sixth straight year by U.S. News & World
Report in its annual list of America's Best Hospitals. John Muir Medical Center,
Walnut Creek was ranked in the Top 50 in Orthopedics, Gastroenterology and
Gynecology, making the medical center one of the top-ranked facilities on the
West Coast in those specialties and the only non-academic medical center in
northern California to appear in the Top 50. Fewer than 150 hospitals are
nationally ranked in at least one of 16 medical specialties.

In addition to the national rankings, U.S. News & World Report published state
and metropolitan hospital rankings. John Muir Medical Center, Walnut Creek is
listed at #2 out of 45 hospitals in the San Francisco-Oakland area and #7 out of
nearly 400 acute care hospitals in California. John Muir Medical Center, Concord
is listed at #3 locally and #18 in the state. In total, the two hospitals had 22
services nationally ranked or rated as high performing, including Cancer,
Cardiology & Heart Surgery, Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gastroenterology,
Geriatrics, Gynecology, Nephrology, Neurology & Neurosurgery, Orthopedics,
Pulmonology and Urology.

"John Muir Health's commitment to high-quality care and a superior patient
experience are reflected in the rankings by U.S. News & World Report," said
Irving Pike, M.D., Chief Medical Officer at John Muir Health. "We have set the
bar high and will continue to offer a broad range of services not usually found
at community hospitals so residents can stay close to home for the very best
care."

"We are proud to be ranked among the region, state and nation's best," said Jane
Willemsen, president and chief administrative officer of John Muir Medical
Center, Walnut Creek. "These distinctions are a testament to John Muir Health's
team of incredible doctors, nurses, staff and volunteers who every day are
dedicated to advancing our community's health."

"We have invested significantly in our community through the building of new
patient care towers at both medical centers to be able to care for our patients
for generations to come," said Mike Thomas, president and chief administrative
officer at John Muir Medical Center, Concord. "We look forward to continuing to
deliver the excellent care and experience our patients expect and deserve."

According to U.S. News & World Report, the national and high-performing rankings
showcase only 15 percent of the nation's nearly 5,000 hospitals. The hospital
rankings, said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow, are like a
GPS-type aid to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in the
procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges. "All of
these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

Between the two medical centers in Concord and Walnut Creek, John Muir Health
has 892 licensed beds. John Muir Medical Center, Walnut Creek also serves as the
designated trauma center for Contra Costa County. In addition, the health system
offers a network of 930 primary care and specialty physicians to care for
patients.

The complete rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals. Highlights of the 2012-13 rankings will
appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, available in August.

To learn more about John Muir Health's award-winning programs and services,
visit: www.johnmuirhealth.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       October 8, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

CHOP Achieves High Rankings as an IT Innovator

LENGTH: 383  words


New Delhi, Oct. 8 -- The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia achieved high
rankings in the annual information technology (IT) rankings announced this week
by the industry publication InformationWeek. The Hospital ranked among both the
top 10 innovators in the healthcare industry, and on the list of Top 20 Great
Ideas, for defining and streamlining clinicians' access to electronic health
records, while keeping those records secure.



CHOP one of only three children's hospitals in overall list of top 250
organizations

The InformationWeek 500 annually lists the leading IT innovators in the U.S.
This year, the rankings placed The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) as
ninth within the healthcare industry and as number 51 overall. In the overall
list, CHOP was one of only three children's hospitals in the top 250
organizations.

"We are extremely proud that our team's efforts to improve the usability and
security of our electronic health records system were acknowledged by this
respected national organization," said Bryan A. Wolf, MD, PhD, senior vice
president and chief information officer at The Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia.

Unconventional approaches to solving complex problems with IT highlighted among
top ranked institutions

"The InformationWeek 500 has recognized the most innovative users of business
technology for 24 years, and this year's innovations were particularly
impressive," said InformationWeek Editor in Chief Rob Preston. "What the editors
looked for are unconventional approaches-new technologies, new models, new ways
of grabbing business opportunities and solving complex business problems with
IT."

Under the heading of "20 Great Ideas to Steal in 2012," InformationWeek praised
CHOP's success in implementing a challenging IT project adapted to the needs of
9,000 users with nearly 500 different roles within the Hospital's Care Network.
The publication praised CHOP's role-based security system, which permits access
to specific portions of health records based on each user's clinically defined
role. The system allows each clinician appropriate access to records, no matter
where the individual may move within CHOP's network. "The system combines
flexible access to information with proper safeguards on the availability of
protected data," added Wolf.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Kokomo Tribune (Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 10, 2009 Sunday

Kokomo Tribune, Ind., Ken De La Bastide column: St. Joseph makes Top 5

BYLINE: Ken De La Bastide, Kokomo Tribune, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 385 words


May 10--St. Joseph Hospital continues to move up in the rankings of the Best
Places to Work in Indiana.

This is the third year St. Joseph has competed in the Indiana Chamber Commerce
ranking.

The first time the local hospital ranked 13th in the category for businesses
with more than 250 employees. Last year, it was ranked 10th, and this year
climbed to fifth.

In addition, St. Joseph is the highest-ranking hospital on the list and the only
health care employer in Kokomo to receive the award. Only 70 Indiana companies
have received the designation of Best Place to Work in Indiana by creating a
strong workplace culture in which employees feel valued.

"We were competing with some pretty amazing companies, and it is an honor to
achieve the ranking of fifth Best Place to Work in Indiana," said Kathy Young,
hospital president. "The ranking truly belongs to our associates because they
are the ones that make St. Joseph special. They take pride in being the best,
and they consistently go above and beyond to create an exceptional experience
for our patients and each other."

The program honors the top companies in the state, as determined through
employer reports and comprehensive employee surveys. Winners were selected from
two categories: small- to medium-sized companies between 25 and 249 employees,
and large-sized companies consisting of 250 or more employees. The actual
rankings of the top Indiana companies were announced at the awards dinner May 5
at the Indiana Roof Ballroom in downtown Indianapolis.

Young sent an e-mail to other employees notifying them of the award.

"You know that I firmly believe it is all of you who make this place so
special," Young said. "The care you show our patients and each other is
phenomenal."

Hospital spokeswoman Marla Achor said the hospital will not decide until later
this year if it will continue to participate in the "Best Places to Work"
rankings.

To see more of the Kokomo Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.kokomotribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, Kokomo Tribune, Ind.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090510-KO-Kokomo-Tribune-Ind-Ken-De-La-Bastide-column-0510

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KO


                         Copyright 2009 Kokomo Tribune

                              186 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Making the grade

BYLINE: NLVL

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 180 words


The U.S. News & World Report's 23rd annual Best Hospitals -rankings showcase 732
of the nation's 4,800 hospitals.

Of those, 148 were nationally ranked in at least one of 16 specialties.
Hospitals that didn't make that cut but were rated in the top 25% for at least
one speciality were eligible for a regional ranking.

Factors used by U.S. News to compile the rankings include survival rates, safety
measures, nurse-to-patient ratios, other data and surveys of specialists around
the country.

"Each year, we refine the methodology we use to rank hospitals to reflect the
latest knowledge about the best recipes for top-notch care," said Ben Harder,
general manager of the magazine's health rankings.

"In several specialties, for example, we gave more weight this year to the
number of difficult cases each hospital handles, because evidence shows lots of
practice generally makes a hospital that much closer to perfect.

"On the flip side, we relied a little less this year on hospitals' reputations
among medical specialists."

All the rankings are available at www.usnews.com/besthospitals

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Daily News, L.P.

                              187 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL RATED BEST IN WISCONSIN

BYLINE:  BILL NOVAK  bnovak@madison.com

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 204 words


UW Hospital and Clinics is the top-rated hospital in the state once again,
according to rankings released by U.S. News & World Report in its annual Best
Hospitals guide.

This is the sixth year in a row UW Hospital and Clinics has been named the
state's top hospital.

The nation's 4,500 hospitals were evaluated in 16 specialties, with only 152
hospitals getting at least one ranking in a specialty. UW Hospital is ranked in
nine specialties.

The highest rankings attained by UW Hospital were in gynecology at 13 and
urology at 16.

The hospital also scored high in nephrology (28), pulmonology (28), geriatrics
(31), cancer (37), gastroenterology and GI surgery (37), neurology and
neurosurgery (43) and orthopedics (45).

Data used by U.S. News mostly came from the American Hospital Association Annual
Survey Database, which measures advanced technology, patient volume, nursing
intensity and the presence of a high-level trauma center, UW Health said.

Mayo Clinic was named the best hospital in the country for the second straight
year, followed by the Cleveland Clinic and Johns Hopkins Hospital.

The rankings can be found online at
www.usnews.com/info/blogs/press-room/articles/2017-08-08/us-news-announces-2017-
18-best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Wexford People (Ireland)

                                 April 18, 2012

Hospital earns a 'green' ranking

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS

LENGTH: 138 words


WEXFORD General Hospital was among seven hospitals across the country to receive
a favourable 'green' ranking in the latest results published by 'Healthstat'.

Each hospital is judged over three categories: Access, Integration and
Resources. Wexford General received a 'green' ranking in Access, which measures
the waiting times that people experience for different services.

Wexford also received a 'green' ranking in Integration, which ensures that
patients are receiving outpatient or day care when they should be, that, where
suitable, people are being admitted on the day of their procedure and that the
length of their stay is as expected.

Wexford General received an ' amber' ranking, meaning average performance, in
Resources. Resources judges whether a hospital is making the best use of its
human and financial resources.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Wexford People (Ireland)

                                 April 18, 2012

Hospital earns a 'green' ranking

SECTION:

LENGTH: 138 words


WEXFORD General Hospital was among seven hospitals across the country to receive
a favourable 'green' ranking in the latest results published by 'Healthstat'.

Each hospital is judged over three categories: Access, Integration and
Resources. Wexford General received a 'green' ranking in Access, which measures
the waiting times that people experience for different services.

Wexford also received a 'green' ranking in Integration, which ensures that
patients are receiving outpatient or day care when they should be, that, where
suitable, people are being admitted on the day of their procedure and that the
length of their stay is as expected.

Wexford General received an ' amber' ranking, meaning average performance, in
Resources. Resources judges whether a hospital is making the best use of its
human and financial resources.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 23, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BARNES-JEWISH RANKS SEVENTH ON LIST OF TOP U.S. HOSPITALS

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 105 words


Barnes-Jewish Hospital ranked seventh overall on U.S. News & World Report's
annual list of the best hospitals in the country, earning the highest ranking of
the four St. Louis area hospitals on the rating.

Judged by ability in 16 categories including cancer, psychiatry and geriatrics,
Barnes-Jewish placed on the ranking's honor roll for the seventh straight time.
It scored high in 14 treatment categories. The other institutions included St.
Louis University Hospital, which ranked high in nine treatment categories; St.
John's Mercy Medical Center (three categories); and St. Anthony's Medical Center
(one category).

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo - (of the cover of "U.S. News & World Report," 'America's
Best Hospitals' issue)

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

                              191 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday

CHOC ranks among the nation's best

BYLINE: By LANDON HALL, ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: WELLNESS; Pg. WEL

LENGTH: 405 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hospital given high marks for six specialties.


Children's Hospital of Orange County was ranked among the nation's best
children's hospitals in six specialties by U.S. News & World Report.

CHOC earned its highest ranking for its neonatology department, ranking No. 29.
The hospital ranked 33rd in pulmonology, 34th in cancer, 37th in
neurology/neurosurgery, 44th in diabetes/endocrinology and 47th in urology.

The report relied mostly on patient outcomes and other data to analyze the care
at 179 pediatric hospitals around the country. It also incorporated a
"reputational assessment" and a survey of physicians.

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia came out No. 1 on the report's Honor Roll,
with Boston Children's Hospital second. Children's Hospital Los Angeles ranked
fifth.

VA STAFF INCREASES

The Department of Veterans Affairs has hired 1,600 mental-health professionals,
and 12 of them now work at the VA hospital in Long Beach.

The staff increases will help VA hospitals deal with the demand for services as
veterans return home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many of them suffer
from post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and other issues.

"The biggest issue we're having is PTSD," said Dr. Lawrence Albers, chief of the
mental-health group in the Long Beach VA Healthcare System.

Returning vets often are reluctant to seek help, Albers said.

"They want to work, they want to go to school, they want to be with their
families, they want to get on with their lives. Unfortunately, a lot of times
they will sort of bypass treatment, although the VA and the military have a lot
of ways of trying to intervene, compared with the Vietnam veterans who did not
get the same level of services that they deserved returning from combat."

PRENATAL IRON

Pregnant women who took iron supplements each day tended to have fewer problems
with low birth weight in their babies, according to a study published on the
British Medical Journal's website.

Previous research had pointed to an association between prenatal iron deficiency
and an increased risk of anemia and preterm birth.

The study, conducted in Britain and the United States, examined more than 90
such studies involving 2 million women. It found that the more iron a woman
took, the lower the risk of anemia and the higher the birth weight. The benefits
were seen in subjects who took up to 66 milligrams per day; the World Health
Organization recommends a dose of 60 mg per day for pregnant women.



lhall@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The seven-story Bill Holmes Tower for patient care opened this spring
at Children's Hospital of Orange County, which was among the top 50 in six
categories in U.S. News & World Report's latest rankings of the best children's
hospitals in the United States.

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Advocate Lutheran General named among Best in Illinois and Chicago

BYLINE: Advocate Lutheran General Hospital

SECTION: SUBMITTED CONTENT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 356 words


Recognized for delivering exceptional patient care, Advocate Lutheran General
Hospital has been named as one of the best hospitals in Illinois and the Chicago
Metro region by U.S. News & World Report's 2016-2017 Best Hospitals list.
According to the rankings that were released today, Lutheran General Hospital
ranked sixth overall in Illinois and the Chicago metro area.

"It is a tremendous honor to be ranked among the best hospitals in Chicago and
Illinois," says Rick Floyd, president of Advocate Lutheran General Hospital.
"This recognition reflects our focus on safety, quality and service and wouldn't
be possible without the outstanding commitment of our physicians, associates and
volunteers."

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings recognize hospitals that excel in
treating the most challenging patients. Advocate Lutheran General made the top
50 list nationally in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery and Gynecology and ranked
high performing in cancer, geriatrics, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

"Being ranked No. 34 in the nation for gynecology is a great honor," says Dr.
Thomas Iannucci, Chair, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Advocate
Lutheran General Hospital. "It recognizes that we have some of the finest
specialists, compassionate and caring nurses, staff and house-staff, as well as
state-of-the-art technologies to provide exceptional patient care."

Five other Advocate Health Care hospitals have been named among the finest in
Chicago and Illinois and they include Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center
on Chicago's North Side, Advocate Sherman Hospital in Elgin, Advocate Christ
Medical Center in Oak Lawn, Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove
and Advocate Good Shepherd Hospital in Barrington.

The U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year,
help guide patients who need a high level of care because they face a
particularly difficult surgery, a challenging condition or extra risk because of
age or multiple health problems. Objective measures such as patient survival and
safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing and other data determine the rankings.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              193 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday

BRIEF: LRH ranked 'Better' in Consumer Reports

BYLINE: Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 147 words


Sept. 03--Lake Region Healthcare was given a "better" ranking in the September
2013 issue of Consumer Reports ranking the quality of surgery among hospitals,
the highest ranking in the magazine's scale.

According to the magazine, the ratings are based on the percentage of a
hospital's surgery patients who died in the hospital or stayed longer than
expected for their procedure. The magazine editors worked with MPA, a health
care consulting firm with expertise in analyzing billing claims and clinical
records data and in helping hospitals use the information to improve patient
safety.

A total of 34 hospitals in Minnesota were ranked, and LRHC was among 14
receiving the "better" ranking.

___ (c)2013 the Fergus Falls Daily Journal (Fergus Falls, Minn.) Visit the
Fergus Falls Daily Journal (Fergus Falls, Minn.) at www.fergusfallsjournal.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130903-1FF-BRF-LRH-ranked-Better-in-Consumer-Reports-0903-20130903

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FF


                Copyright 2013 Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn

                              194 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday

Magazines rank care at MWH

BYLINE: Jim Hall, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


July 22--Mary Washington Hospital scored near the top of one and near the bottom
of another in two new hospital rankings by national magazines.

In U.S. News & World Report, the Fredericksburg hospital ranked sixth among 125
Virginia hospitals. In Consumer Reports, the hospital's "safety score" was 32
out of 39 Virginia hospitals.

Stafford Hospital and Spotsylvania Regional Medical Center are not ranked in
either study.

U.S. News describes Mary Washington as one of the best hospitals in Virginia
with eight specialties that it describes as "high performing." These are ear,
nose and throat; geriatrics; neurology and neurosurgery; pulmonology;
gastroenterology; nephrology; orthopedics; and urology. The rankings appear on
the magazine's website and will be in its Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook in
August.

"Our No. 6 ranking within Virginia confirms that our exceptionally skilled team
of medical professionals and support staff are providing the best care for our
community," Kevin Van Renan, senior vice president and hospital administrator,
said in a statement.

In its August issue, Consumer Reports measured hospitals in four areas: hospital
-acquired infections, re-admission rate, clear discharge instructions and
percentage of chest and abdominal CT scans ordered twice for the same patient.
Mary Washington scored well in scanning and infections, but poorly in
communication and re-admissions. Its overall safety score was 43 out of a
possible 100.

Last month, Mary Washington received an "A," the top score, on a safety report
by the Leapfrog Group, a nonprofit founded by some of the nation's largest
businesses.

Jim Hall: 540/374-5433

Email: jhall@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2012 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120722-FB-Magazines-rank-care-at-MWH-0722-20120722

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2012 The Free Lance-Star

                              195 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Powered by Translate US NEWS & WORLD REPORT NAMES ST. VINCENT'S MEDICAL CENTER
BEST HOSPITAL IN FAIRFIELD COUNTY AND WESTERN CT

LENGTH: 546  words

DATELINE: Valhalla


New York Medical College has issued the following news release:

BRIDGEPORT--St. Vincent's Medical Center has been ranked as the Best Hospital in
Fairfield County and in all of Western Connecticut for 2013-2014 by U.S. News &
World Report.

St. Vincent's is also ranked # 4 in the state, and was recognized as
"High-Performing" in the specialties of Gastroenterology & GI Surgery;
Geriatrics; Gynecology; Neurology and Neurosurgery; Pulmonology and Urology.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.

"I would like to recognize our hospital staff and our medical staff for their
outstanding work that led to this recognition.  St. Vincent's is pleased to be
ranked as the best hospital in Fairfield County and Western Connecticut. It's no
coincidence that St. Vincent's has achieved these high rankings from US News and
World Report, Nursing Magnet recognition, and for two years in row, a Leapfrog
Hospital Safety Score of "A". These achievements  affirm all the work we have
done to create a safe and highly reliable organization that patients and their
families can trust for the highest standard of care," said St. Vincent's
President Stuart G. Marcus, MD, FACS. "We are extremely proud of our physicians
and hospital staff who do their best every day to save lives and keep patient
safety and the patient and family experience at the top of mind and top of
heart."

St.  Vincent's has implemented a high reliability safety program across all its
services, and recently received its second  "A" Hospital Safety Score  from the
Leapfrog Group, a national organization dedicated to improving the safety,
quality and affordability of health care for Americans. St. Vincent's is one of
only two Connecticut hospitals to receive both Nursing Magnet®  recognition and
Leapfrog "A" Hospital Safety Score. The Connecticut Hospital Association awarded
the Medical Center the 2012 John D. Thompson Award for its safety program, and
St. Vincent's was also featured by the Joint Commission recently as a model of a
high reliability organization.

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties.  In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Ranking Editor.  "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data determined the rankings in most specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
North Carolina. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro
rankings.

For more information please visit: http://www.nymc.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                            April 22, 2015 Wednesday

County Hospitals Get 3 Or 4 Stars Out Of 5 Pennsylvania Average Ratings;
Health Care Heart Of Lancaster Regional Medical Center Has Highest Overall
Patient Experience Ranking Hospital Responses

BYLINE: Heather Stauffer

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 609  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


HEATHER STAUFFER

HSTAUFFER@LNPNEWS.COM

Lancaster County hospitals get three or four out of five stars on patient
experiences, according to a new ranking published Thursday by the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services.

Heart of Lancaster Regional Medical Center earned four stars on the overall
patient experience ranking, and WellSpan Ephrata Community Hospital, Lancaster
General Hospital and Lancaster Regional Medical Center earned three stars.

Those overall rankings summarize patient reports on 11 measures, including how
well nurses and doctors communicated with them, how responsive hospital staff
was to their needs, how clean and quiet the hospital was and how well they were
prepared for post-hospital settings.

"Hospitals are leaders in sharing quality and safety information to help
patients make informed decisions about their health care," Akin Demehin,
American Hospital Association senior associate director of policy, said in a
written statement on the ratings. "And they believe patients' perceptions of
their care are a critical component of that information."

However, Demehin said, although star ratings could be an effective way of
communicating that information, "There's a risk of oversimplifying the
complexity of quality care or misinterpreting what is important to a particular
patient, especially since patients seek care for many different reasons."

Just 251 of the nearly 3,500 hospitals assessed nationwide achieved the top
five-star ranking, according to analysis by Kaiser Health News.

The ratings are drawn from the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare
Providers and Systems Survey, which has been in use since 2006 but was not
previously included in the Medicare Hospital Compare website results, according
to CMS.

The patient experience ratings will be updated quarterly.

Danielle Gilmore, spokeswoman for the sister for-profit hospitals Heart of
Lancaster and Lancaster Regional, said in an email that they value transparency
and consumer knowledge.

The Medicare comparison website "is just one of the many resources consumers can
use in consultation with their physician to make informed health decisions," she
said.

Together, the two hospitals had the highest scores in the county on eight of the
11 underlying patient satisfaction measures.

At Lancaster General, Dr. Lee M. Duke, chief physician executive, and Lisa R.
Hess, vice president of marketing, issued a joint statement saying the health
system works constantly to improve quality and patient satisfaction.

They also noted the results of two of the 11 component scores - that 78 percent
of Lancaster General patients would "definitely recommend" the hospital, and
that 74 percent rated it a nine or 10.

Both of those ratings exceed state and national averages, they said.

WellSpan spokesman Brett Marcy said the health system "has recently implemented
a broad survey process across our entire organization, including Ephrata, which
will help us gather valuable insights from our patients and their families."

"We've also engaged industry experts to teach our staff, at all levels, how they
can help to make our patients, families and visitors feel more comfortable when
they're with us," he said. "And we've developed councils with patient advisers
to help us improve not just their experience, but also our daily operations."

The 158 Pennsylvania hospitals issued patient experience ratings averaged 3.2
stars, according to analysis by Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit news service.

The approximate percentage of Pennsylvania hospitals issued each rating is as
follows.

 1 star: 1 percent

 2 stars: 14 percent

 3 stars: 54 percent

 4 stars: 27 percent

 5 stars: 5 percent

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 23, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Four Allegheny Health Network Hospitals Named High Performers by U.S. News

LENGTH: 542  words


July 23 -- US based Allegheny Health Network issued the following news release:

Four hospitals affiliated with the Allegheny Health Network have been lauded in
the latest ranking of the country's best hospitals by U.S. News and World
Report. Released online today and slated for publication in August, the U.S.
News 2014-2015 Best Hospital's Guide recognizes Allegheny General Hospital
(AGH), Forbes Hospital, Saint Vincent Hospital and West Penn Hospital as high
performing medical centers across multiple clinical specialties.

"There is no higher priority at Allegheny Health Network than the quality and
safety of the care that we provide to our patients, and we are extremely proud
of our physicians, nurses and support staff for the outstanding skill and
dedication they bring to the bedside and into our physician offices every day to
help us fulfill that promise," said Tony Farah, MD, Allegheny Health Network's
chief medical officer.

Just 752 of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals earn U.S. News' designation as
a high performing medical center in the 2014-15 report.

AGH this year is recognized by U.S. News as a top performer in 10 clinical
specialties, including orthopaedic surgery, gastroenterology & GI surgery,
cancer, diabetes & endocrinology, cardiology & cardiac surgery, gynecology,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.

West Penn Hospital is named a high performer in cancer, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery and urology.

Forbes Hospital in Monroeville is ranked as high-performing in cancer,
gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, neurology & neurosurgery,
orthopaedic surgery, pulmonology and urology.

Saint Vincent Hospital, Erie PA, is designated as a high performer in
gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics, nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery
and pulmonology.

The Best Hospitals rankings are intended to help patients with life-threatening
or rare conditions identify hospitals that excel in treating the most difficult
cases. Hospitals are ranked nationally in 16 specialties.

The rankings are based on a combination of objective clinical information
gleaned from Medicare outcomes data and the annual American Hospital Association
Survey - including patient mortality rates, patient safety scores,
nurse-to-patient ratio, procedure volumes and technological capabilities - and a
hospital's reputation score in each category as determined by a random, national
survey of medical specialists across the country.

U.S. News made several changes to the Best Hospitals rankings methodology this
year, including adding new data and greater emphasis on patient safety. Patient
safety metrics now account for 10 percent of each hospital's overall score, in
most specialties - twice as much as in past years.

The role of hospital reputation diminished by 5 percentage points this year.

"U.S. News strives to provide patients and their families with the most
comprehensive data available on hospitals," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News health
rankings editor. "With an estimated 400,000 deaths occurring in hospitals each
year from medical errors, measuring safety performance is critical to
understanding how well a hospital cares for its patients.

Source: Allegheny Health Network

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 14, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

The Johns Hopkins Hospital Again Ranked Among the Top U.S. Hospitals by U.S.
News & World Report

LENGTH: 707  words


New Delhi, Sept. 14 -- Since its founding, The Johns Hopkins Hospital has broken
new ground, led the field in medicine and made history in countless ways. Just
one of the hospital's many historic achievements is that it was consecutively
ranked #1 in the nation for 21 years out of the 23 in which U.S. News & World
Report has held its annual rankings of U.S. hospitals. This year, the hospital
is again ranked #1 nationally in five specialties, and it is ranked #2 overall
in the nation. We understand that changes were introduced in the methodology,
which apparently affected the ranking of many organizations, including Johns
Hopkins. In the magazine's inaugural ranking of hospitals at the state level,
the hospital ranked #1 in Maryland. It ranked #1 in the Baltimore metropolitan
region, and it is the only hospital in the state that has consistently ranked
nationally in 16 medical specialties.



The hospital's standings in the 16 specialties ranked by U.S. News & World
Report reflect the strong performance and historic leadership of the
institution. Ear, Nose and Throat, Geriatrics, Neurology & Neurosurgery,
Psychiatry and Rheumatology are ranked #1 in the nation. Ophthalmology and
Urology are ranked #2; Cancer, Cardiology & Heart Surgery, and Gastroenterology
are ranked #3; Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gynecology, Nephrology and Pulmonology
are ranked #4. Orthopedics is ranked #5, and Rehabilitation is ranked #17.

"We continue to be ranked among the very best hospitals in the nation, and we
are proud of our outstanding faculty, nurses and staff who make it happen," says
Paul B. Rothman, M.D., dean and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine. "This year's
ranking gives us one more opportunity to express our thanks and gratitude to the
people of Johns Hopkins Medicine and to recognize their dedication to the
patients and communities we serve."

"This recognition caps an extraordinary year for Johns Hopkins Medicine," says
Ronald R. Peterson, president of The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System
and executive vice president of Johns Hopkins Medicine. "We have witnessed the
completion of our hospital expansion with the opening of the Sheikh Zayed Tower
and The Charlotte R. Bloomberg Children's Center, the largest hospital project
in the nation and one that provides a beautiful, patient-centered environment
for those who trust us with their health care. We have also implemented a host
of other actions designed to ensure the continued strength and vitality of Johns
Hopkins Medicine as we position ourselves for the future while ensuring that our
patients remain at the center of everything we do. In this inaugural year of
U.S. News & World Report's state-level rankings, we are also proud to be ranked
the #1 hospital in Maryland."

"These investments continue to strengthen our ability to fulfill our mission to
provide the innovative and compassionate care that is the Johns Hopkins
hallmark, to advance science and knowledge through research, and to educate in
new and innovative ways the next generation of physicians and scientists,"
Rothman says.

"All of the medical centers on the magazine's national honor roll are superb,
and we are privileged to be in their good company," says Peterson. "We
congratulate our colleagues at those hospitals who have been ranked with us
among the top hospitals in the nation and recognize our Johns Hopkins Medicine
family for their outstanding accomplishments."

USN&WR 2012 adult rankings recognized four other Johns Hopkins Medicine
hospitals as achieving high performance within their state or region, for
specific specialties:

* Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center was recognized as achieving high
performance in Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Geriatrics,
Nephrology, Neurology & Neurosurgery, Orthopedics, Pulmonology and Urology.

* Suburban Hospital was recognized as achieving high performance in
Gastroenterology, Orthopedics, Pulmonology and Urology.

* Howard County General Hospital was recognized as achieving high performance in
Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, Nephrology, Neurology &
Neurosurgery, Orthopedics, Pulmonology and Urology.

* Sibley Memorial Hospital was recognized as achieving high performance in
Nephrology and Orthopedics.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday

Blue Cross revises ranking system Patients of lower-rated doctors will pay more

BYLINE: JEREMY OLSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 500 words


A new health plan from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota will make
patients pay more out of pocket if they use hospitals or doctors that provide
lower-quality care at higher costs.

Blue Cross tried last year to create a "tiered" plan that ranked doctors and
hospitals, but doctors objected because they were judged on their hospital
affiliations and not on their own clinical results. The state's largest private
insurer agreed under pressure to remove the physician rankings from the plan
until this year.

The revised plan, announced Monday, measures physician groups on their own
costs. Depending on their specialties, they also are evaluated on five to 23
measures of medical quality. The resistance among doctors to last year's
proposal was "understandable," said Dr. David Ploncher, Blue Cross' chief
medical officer, but he believes the new two-tier plan provides a fair and open
evaluation. In the latest list, some doctors rank differently than their
affiliated hospitals.

"The good that can happen with tiering is that it should reward the
better-performing providers with good market share," Ploncher said.

Insurers are hoping tiered plans will lower skyrocketing health costs by
steering patients to top-tier doctors and hospitals, which provide high-quality
care at lower costs. HealthPartners and Medica also offer tiered plans.

Blue Cross is only offering the new plan to employers with self-insured health
benefits, meaning their costs are independent from other Blue Cross users. The
rankings do not affect people with Medicare plans or individual health
insurance. Two national employers have signed up, Ploncher said.

Blue Cross projects that employers who select the new tiered plan for 2007 will
see their medical costs decline by 6 percent to 8 percent. The savings will
result from patients choosing top-tier doctors or hospitals. Patients can still
select lower-tier providers, but they will pay roughly 20 percent more in
coinsurance or deductible payments.

The Minnesota Medical Association presented no opposition to this year's plan
and participated in its development, said Dr. Robert Meiches, the association's
chief executive officer. The association will release a report this fall that
compares tiered plans in the market.

Hospitals objected last year to Blue Cross' tiering plan, which placed the Mayo
Clinic and the two metro Children's Hospitals in the lower tiers because of high
costs. Blue Cross did not change hospital tiers this year, but it plans to
re-evaluate hospitals and clinics on an annual basis.

Blue Cross is ranking only hospitals and clinic groups in competitive markets.
An initial list shows that affiliated hospitals and clinics didn't always gain
the same rankings.

HealthEast's hospitals in St. Paul, Maplewood and Woodbury gained top-tier
rankings, but its physician groups placed in the lower tier. Allina's hospitals
are in the lower tier, but its clinics are in the top tier.

Jeremy Olson can be reached at jolson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5583.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

Hospital ranks high; Shelley is honored

SECTION: A; FL Opinion; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 530 words


OUR VIEW

Sarasota Memorial's national recognition

Sarasota Memorial Hospital's stellar performance in the most recent U.S. News
rankings underscore several important points:

· The phrase high-quality public hospital is not an oxymoron in Sarasota County.

· Taxpayers and private donors are receiving a solid return on their investments
in the hospital.

There is no shortage of assessments and rankings of hospitals and the services
they provide. But U.S. News has a 28-year record of providing credible
evaluations of data and patient outcomes.

As the Herald-Tribune reported, U.S. News found that Sarasota Memorial was among
the top 10 percent of hospitals in the nation for gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery. It was listed as "high performing" in nine areas of
medicine; the other possible grades are "average" and "below average."

All told, Sarasota Memorial is one of only 48 hospitals in the nation to have a
"high performer" rating for all nine of the procedures and conditions that U.S.
News considers.

One privately owned hospital in our region was labeled high performing in two
areas; two private hospitals were high performers in one area each.

Comparisons based on huge amounts of self-reported data are tricky, and patient
outcomes and satisfaction are often based on individualized circumstances and
experiences. What's more, the private hospitals in Manatee, Sarasota and
Charlotte counties can point to other rankings and surveys that praise their
care.

But for Sarasota Memorial to achieve these ratings is particularly impressive
because it also serves as a "safety net" hospital, with a mission to serve
patients in need regardless of their ability to pay. Yes, the hospital benefits
from a relatively modest property-tax rate, levied by an elected board, but the
services it provides to indigent and low-income patients are both costly and
valuable.

The hospital is not flawless, of course, and there are political debates over
where and when SMH should expand its services. But there is no doubt, in our
opinion, that Sarasota Memorial is a public asset to both Sarasota County and
our region.

Congratulations to Booker principal

A dog ate our editorial praising the selection of Dr. Rachel Shelley as
Florida's Principal of the Year.

Well, there was no dog involved and there's no excuse; this editorial assignment
is simply overdue.

Shelley, principal of Booker High School in Sarasota, received her award in late
June, as the Herald-Tribune reported. But with school year about to begin, it's
worth noting and celebrating this honor.

Though Shelley has deflected credit to her staff, under her leadership Booker
has been a well-run, orderly school. It is attended by a diverse student body -
racially, socially and economically - presenting both advantages and challenges.

Having grown up poor in Sarasota, living in public housing, Shelley provides
evidence to all students that, with personal determination and a lot of help
from adults along the way, success is within their reach. She has demonstrated
the professional will to work her way up the ladder, while maintaining
indefatigable enthusiasm.

Congratulations, Principal Shelley. Sorry our message is tardy.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUR VIEW Sarasota Memorial's national recognition Sarasota Memorial
Hospital's stellar performance in the most recent U.S. News rankings underscore
several important points: · The phrase high-quality public hospital is not an
oxymoron in Sarasota County. · Taxpayers and private donors are receiving a
solid return on their investments in the hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

RESPECTED LIST RANKS TGH NO. 2 IN STATE

BYLINE: JODIE TILLMAN, Times Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: Tampa General is rated highly in four specialties by U.S. News &
World Report.


Tampa General Hospital has been ranked as the No. 2 hospital in Florida by U.S.
News & World Reportfor the second year in a row.

TGH, ranked as the No. 1 hospital in the Tampa-St. Petersburg metro area by the
magazine, was also listed as one of the top 50 hospitals nationally in four
specialities: cardiology and heart surgery; nephrology; orthopedics; and
urology.

Florida Hospital Orlando was named No. 1 in the state. Other Tampa Bay hospitals
in the top 20 statewide include Moffitt Cancer Center (No.6); St. Joseph's
Hospital (No.14) and St. Anthony's Hospital (No.19).

Moffitt was named No.1 cancer hospital in the Southeast.

All Children's Hospital was named one of the top 50 pediatric hospitals in the
nation in three specialties: cancer, cardiology, and heart surgery and
orthopedics. Pediatric hospitals are rated by specialty, not overall.

Though it is one of many guides now available, U.S. News' hospital report is
among the best-established.

"We are honored to be recognized as the top hospital in Tampa Bay again this
year and among the nation's best. Tampa General has set itself apart by
developing specialties that are competitive from a national perspective," Jim
Burkhart, president and CEO of TGH, said in a statement. "The focus of our
academic and community physicians, nurses, and hospital support staff is to
continue to provide excellent care so our patients have the best possible
outcomes."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

Patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse staffing levels and
other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties, according to
U.S. News.

"The data tell the story - a hospital that emerged from our analysis as one of
the best has much to be proud of," Avery Comarow, editor of the U.S. News health
rankings, said in a statement.

In the Tampa/St. Petersburg metro area, TGH, Moffitt and St. Joseph's are the
top three, followed by St. Anthony's in St. Petersburg and Florida Hospital
Tampa.

Contact Jodie Tillman at jtillman@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3374. Follow
@JTillmanTimes.

* * *

Hospital rankings

The rankings are available on line at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals
and will appear in the U.S. News "Best Hospitals 2015" guidebook, available in
August.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

2 Utah hospitals land among the nation's best in annual ranking

BYLINE: Wendy Leonard Deseret News

LENGTH: 548 words


SALT LAKE CITY ? Fewer hospitals in the country are out-performing themselves
and others each year, according to the latest survey by U.S. News & World
Report. Of the 56 hospitals analyzed in Utah, only two placed among the nation's
best.

Eight ended up earning nods from the magazine for high performance in specific
disciplines, from cancer treatment to urology. University Hospital was named the
No. 1 health care system in the Salt Lake City metro area, and also placed in
the top 50 in the nation for its gynecology and ear, nose and throat services,
according to the News. Primary Children's Medical Center also did well, with
seven of its specialties (pediatric cancer, cardiology, gastroenterology,
neonatology, nephrology, neurology and orthopedics) placing in the top 40 among
the national rankings. "This recognition represents the hard work and dedication
of our staff and physicians, and it's gratifying to be ranked among the nation's
best," said Dr. Vivian Lee, senior vice president for health sciences and CEO of
University of Utah Health Care. "Our patients are our first priority and we
continually work to provide them the best possible care in every aspect of
medicine." Intermountain Medical Center, LDS Hospital, McKay-Dee Hospital, Salt
Lake Regional Medical Center and St. Mark's Hospital also landed on lists noting
high performance in various specialties of care. The intent of the annual Best
Hospitals report is to guide patients who need an especially high level of care
to the appropriate medical centers, judging by their competence, according to
U.S. News Health Rankings editor and writer Avery Comarow. "These (ranked
hospitals) are referral centers where other hospitals send their sickest
patients," he said. "Hospitals like these are ones you or those close to you
should consider when stakes are high." Death rates, provider-patient ratios,
safety records, procedure volume and other data were examined, therefore pitting
medical centers against each other, based on their performance and reputation.
To be included in the annual evaluation, hospitals must meet a stringent list of
qualifications, including the availability of unusually skilled inpatient care.
Only 140 ? fewer than 3 percent of the 4,785 hospitals analyzed for the latest
Best Hospitals rankings ? qualified to be ranked in even one of the 16
specialties specified, Comarow said. In order to make the nation's "best of  the
best" list, hospitals had to rank at or near the top in six or more
specialties. Only 17 hospitals across the country, none of which are  in Utah,
could claim that honor this year. Johns Hopkins Hospital, in Baltimore, was at
the top of that list. This is the first year that U.S. News has included the
"high-performing" category, which lists hospitals that weren't ranked in the top
50 in a given specialty, but were still among the top 25 percent in the nation.
Hundreds of local physicians were also listed in the company's list of top
doctors, representing dozens of specialties. The doctors were selected based on
a peer-nomination process and are listed online with each corresponding
hospital. The rankings for all hospitals and specialties are available online at
www.usnews.com/besthospitals. E-mail: wleonard@desnews.com, Twitter:
wendyleonards

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              203 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                            0 South Pinellas Edition

TAMPA GENERAL RANKED BEST IN REGION

BYLINE: KATHLEEN MCGRORY, TIMES STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 392 words


Tampa General Hospital is the best hospital in the region and the third best in
Florida, according to rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News & World Report.

Other top performers in the area included Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater
and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa. The two facilities tied for 11th place in
the state.

Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa was named the sixth-best hospital for cancer in
the nation, up from its 18th-place finish last year. Hospital officials said the
jump was partly because Moffitt took steps to earn a prestigious designation
from the American Nurses Association.

"It's especially poignant that this honor comes as we celebrate the hospital's
30th anniversary this year," CEO Dr. Alan F. List said.

U.S. News has been ranking hospitals for nearly three decades. This year, more
than 5,000 facilities across the country were evaluated based on patient
survival rates, infection rates, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, and staffing. The rankings also take the hospital's reputation into
account.

In addition to being named third best in Florida, Tampa General was ranked among
the 50 best nationally in six medical specialities: cardiology and heart
surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal
surgery; nephrology; pulmonology; and urology.

CEO Dr. Jim Burkhart called the recognition an honor.

"It reflects the dedication of our employees and physicians who provide the most
advanced medical care, and strive for the best outcomes for our patients," he
said in a statement.

The U.S. News rankings aren't the only way to see how hospitals stack up.
Consumer Reports also releases annual safety scores, as does the Leapfrog Group.

Last week, the federal government released its first-ever hospital quality
ratings. Hospitals received between one and five stars based on measures
including death and infection rates and patient reviews.

The report roiled some hospital administrators, who said the methodology was
unfair to hospitals that serve poor patients and train new doctors. Tampa
General, which is a teaching hospital, received two stars.

In the federal report, the top-scoring local hospitals were Florida Hospital
Wesley Chapel, Mease Countryside and Mease Dunedin. Each received four stars.

Contact Kathleen McGrory at kmcgrory@tampabay.com or (727) 893-8330. Follow
@kmcgrory.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       The Harrodsburg Herald (Kentucky)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                October 11, 2012

Ephraim McDowell HIS Department Earns Ranking

BYLINE: The Harrodsburg Herald staff

LENGTH: 201  words


Ephraim McDowell Health's Information Services Department has earned a high
national ranking from a respected health care news organization.

In an effort to determine the best hospital IT workplaces in the United States,
Healthcare IT News sponsored a survey that looked at several critical IT areas.
Ephraim McDowell Health ranked ninth overall from 45 medium hospitals (101 to
350 licensed beds) across the nation that qualified for this honor. Overall,
Ephraim McDowell's Information Services Department was one of 272 hospitals
nominated for the Where to Work: Best Hospital IT Departments.

To earn this ranking, Ephraim McDowell's Information Services Department had to
be nominated for the Best Hospital IT Workplace, and then the Department's staff
completed an online survey. The survey measured employee satisfaction across a
number of key workplace categories, including leadership, management and
workplace conditions. Hospitals that earned ranking are those where employees
value a friendly, supportive workplace where they are empowered to do good work.

This award is further evidence that Ephraim McDowell Health's Information
Services Department upholds the organization's standard of excellence.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Accomplishment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HRB

                      Copyright 2012 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2012 The Harrodsburg Herald

                              205 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                           November 1, 2008 Saturday

Waynesboro Hospital gets No. 1 ranking

BYLINE: By MARCUS RAUHUT Staff writer

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 431 words


Waynesboro Hospital was ranked the No. 1 place to work in health care in the
country.

The recognition comes from Modern Healthcare magazine in its first list of the
100 best places to work in health care in the United States.

"It's slightly overwhelming, but it's not hard to understand," said Jerry
McAfee, who works in the maintenance department at the hospital.

Summit Health, which owns Chambersburg and Waynesboro hospitals, accepted the
award on Wednesday at a banquet in Chicago.

Chief Operating Officer Ken Shur said the hospital was humbled by the
recognition.

"Others asked us what we do. We don't think we do anything special. We just try
to do the right things every day," he said following a press conference Friday
in Waynesboro.

Modern Healthcare's rankings covered the entire health care industry, including
for-profit and non-profit hospitals, nursing homes, insurance companies, vendors
and other health care firms. The rankings were based on a narrative submitted by
the hospital and a random survey of 250 employees.

The Modern Healthcare's assessment of Waynesboro Hospital took into account
employee culture, working environment, employee education and development
opportunities, and competitive pay and benefits -- even including a roving
massage therapist to reduce employees' stress.

The article also referred to the hospital as a modern-day Mayberry, and Shur
said the 64-bed hospital aims for cutting-edge technology with a "hometown
atmosphere."

"People is really what makes Waynesboro Hospital a great place to work," said
Bev Diffenderfer, an ultrasound technologist. "You get into health care because
you care about people and want to help people. Not only is it about our
patients, it's about each other."

Shur said the ranking was especially important because health care is a
challenging industry with a stressful working environment. However, he said the
hospital's employee turnover rate is well below the industry average. For the
hospital, the hope is that taking care of employees will result in better care
for patients.

"Engagement leads to retention, which leads to improved continuity of care,"
said Michael Reyka, vice president for nursing at Waynesboro Hospital.

Waynesboro Hospital employs more than 600 people.

In 2003, the hospital was named the third-best place to work in Pennsylvania by
the Central Penn Business Journal and earlier this year ranked among the highest
in the region in patient satisfaction in a U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services survey.

----------

Marcus Rauhut can be reached at mrauhut@publicopinionnews.com or 262-4752.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                       July 18, 2003 Friday Metro Edition

Emory Hospital 7th in nation's-best rating

BYLINE: GRETA LORGE

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Metro News; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 216 words


Emory University Hospital earned top marks in the latest U.S. News & World
Report ranking of America's best hospitals, released Thursday. Emory's
cardiology program ranked seventh in the nation, placing it in the top 10 for
the 13th time since the magazine's "best hospital" rankings began in 1990. Last
year the program was ranked eighth.

"We believe the fact that our U.S. News & World Report ranking has risen a notch
reflects the growing recognition among our medical colleagues across the nation
that Emory provides some of the very best cardiology care available anywhere,"
said Dr. Douglas Morris, director of the Emory Heart Center.

Six other Emory programs rank among the nation's top 50 in their respective
areas: eyes (15), geriatrics (41), gynecology (39), kidney disease (28),
psychiatry (17) and urology (32). Emory was the only hospital in Georgia to make
the top 50 in any of these specialty areas.

Shepherd Center in Atlanta ranked 16th for rehabilitation, and Hughston Sports
Medicine Hospital in Columbus ranked 24th for rheumatology.

The U.S. News rankings are based on the hospitals' professional reputation,
patient mortality, and a host of other factors, including the nurse-to-patient
ratio and access to advanced medical technology.

ME: METRO LONGER

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              207 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                   Philly.com

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia ranked 2nd among U.S. News' best children's
hospitals

BYLINE: Rita Giordano, Philly.com

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 302 words


June 27--Children's Hospital of Philadelphia has been ranked second in the
nation in U.S. News & World Report's 11th annual rankings of the best pediatric
hospitals in the country.

"We are honored to be so highly ranked in the U.S. News ranking, and to be in
the company of other leading children's hospitals," said Madeline Bell,
president and chief executive officer of Children's. "It takes the ongoing
expertise of everyone at CHOP to help make breakthroughs happen every day for
our patients and their families."

Ranked first on the publication's pediatric honor roll for the third year in a
row is Boston Children's Hospital.

In the third spot was Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. Children's
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC ranked ninth.

U.S. News also highlighted the top 50 centers in 10 pediatric specialties. Here
are the top-ranked hospitals in each specialty:

* Cancer: St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis.

* Cardiology and heart surgery: Texas Children's Hospital, Houston.

* Diabetes and endocrinology: Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

* Gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery: Boston Children's Hospital.

* Neonatology: Children's National Medical Center, Washington.

* Nephrology: Boston Children's Hospital.

* Neurology and neurosurgery: Boston Children's Hospital.

* Orthopedics: Boston Children's Hospital.

* Pulmonology: Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

* Urology: Boston Children's Hospital.

The specialty rankings take into account factors such as clinical outcomes,
patient volume, infection control, adequate nurse staffing, efficiency and
coordination of care, and compliance with best practices. CHOP ranked within the
top three nationally in nine of the 10 areas.

___ (c)2017 Philly.com Visit Philly.com at www.philly.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170627-PHI-Children-s-Hospital
-of-Philadelphia-ranked-2nd-among-U-S-News-best-children-s-hospitals
-0627-20170627

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PHI


                                 Copyright 2017

                              208 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Elkhart Truth (Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Elkhart General, IU Health Goshen hospitals ranked in Indiana's top 5 by US News
and World Report

BYLINE: Emily Pfund, The Elkhart Truth, Ind.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


July 28--Two Elkhart County hospitals are among the best in the state, according
to a national ranking of healthcare providers.

The 2015 Best Hospitals list published by U.S. News and World Report ranks
Elkhart General Hospital as the fourth-best hospital in the state and IU Health
Goshen Hospital as fifth.

According to the rankings, which include information on 5,000 hospitals
nationwide, EGH received a "high performing" rating in heart bypass surgery,
heart failure and knee replacement procedures.

IU Health Goshen was rated "high performing" for hip and knee replacement
procedures.

To assemble the rankings list, U.S. News measured the facilities' patient
volume, risk-adjusted survival rates and adequacy of nurse staffing, among other
care-related factors, according to a news release from the publication.

"Patients deserve high-quality information on hospitals," Ben Harder, chief of
health analysis at U.S. News, said in a statement. "We strive to provide them
with the most comprehensive data available so they can make more informed
decisions together with their doctor about where to undergo treatment."

The Elkhart County hospitals came behind hospitals in Indianapolis and
Evansville.

The No. 1 spot went to IU Health Academic Health Center in Indianapolis, which
was nationally ranked for 10 specialties, including 14th in pulmonology, 17th in
urology and gastroenterology/GI surgery, and 20th in neurology/neurosurgery.

St. Vincent Hospital and Health Center, also in Indianapolis, took the No. 2
spot and was nationally ranked 22nd in gynecology and 35th in ear, nose and
throat care.

Evansville's St. Mary's Medical Center was listed as the state's third-best
hospital.

For more information on how Indiana's hospitals stacked up, read the full
rankings list from U.S. News and World Report.

___ (c)2015 The Elkhart Truth (Elkhart, Ind). Visit The Elkhart Truth (Elkhart,
Ind). at www.elkharttruth.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150728-1ET-Elkhart-General-IU-Health-Goshen-hospitals
-ranked-in-Indiana-s-top-5-by-US-News-and-World-Report-0728-20150728

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1ET


                        Copyright 2015 The Elkhart Truth

                              209 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia ranked 2nd among U.S. News' best children's
hospitals

BYLINE: Rita Giordano

SECTION: MAGAZINE; P-com Health News; Pg.

LENGTH: 257 words


Children's Hospital of Philadelphia has been ranked second in the nation in U.S.
News & World Report's 11th annual rankings of the best pediatric hospitals in
the country.";We are honored to be so highly ranked in the U.S. News ranking,
and to be in the company of other leading children's hospitals,"; said Madeline
Bell, president and chief executive officer of Children's. ";It takes the
ongoing expertise of everyone at CHOP to help make breakthroughs happen every
day for our patients and their families.";Ranked first on the publication's
pediatric honor roll for the third year in a row is Boston Children's Hospital
.In the third spot was Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. Children's
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC ranked ninth.U.S. News also highlighted the top
50 centers in 10 pediatric specialties. Here are the top-ranked hospitals in
each specialty:The specialty rankings take into account factors such as clinical
outcomes, patient volume, infection control, adequate nurse staffing, efficiency
and coordination of care, and compliance with best practices. CHOP ranked within
the top three nationally in nine of the 10 areas.

Twin girls joined at head separated at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia

http://www.philly.com/philly/health/health-news/twin-girls-joined-at-heads-separ
ated-at-childrens-hospital-of-philadelphia-20170613.html

CHOP performs world's 2nd successful surgery on heart tumor before birth

http://www.philly.com/philly/health/hearthealth/CHOP-pericardial-teratoma-fetal-
pregnancy--surgery-canessa.html

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: Michael Bryant / Staff photographer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday

Lucile Packard, Stanford Hospital ranked near top in the nation

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 224 words


Lucile Packard Children's Hospital was ranked one of the nation's best
children's hospitals in the latest U.S. News & World Report released Thursday.

The hospital was ranked fifth in the nation for treatment of kidney disorders
and for heart surgery. It was also ranked sixth for neonatology, or the care of
newborn infants.

Lucile Packard officials said no other Bay Area children's hospital had programs
ranked in the top 10.

The rankings were based on surveys from 96 children's hospitals, and considered
their reputation, medical outcomes such as cancer survival rates, and other
factors such as nurse staffing and availability of specialized programs.

"We share this success with our entire faculty and staff," Christopher Dawes,
president and CEO at Lucile Packard, said in a statement. "They're pioneers in
pediatric and obstetric medicine, and it's through their passion and innovation
that we have built one of the nation's best children's hospital."

Last year, Stanford Hospital & Clinics ranked well in U.S. News & World Report's
rankings of non-children's hospitals. Of about 4,800 hospitals in 2009, Stanford
ranked 10th for cancer treatment and 14th for rheumatology, gynecology, and ear,
nose and throat treatment.

To see the full list of rankings, visit http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals
.

Diana Samuels, Daily News staff report

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 4, 2016 Thursday

Three Amita hospitals honored

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words


Three Amita hospitals honored

ARLINGTON HEIGHTS -- U.S. News & World Report has ranked Amita Health Adventist
Medical Center Hinsdale, Amita Health Alexian Brothers Medical Center Elk Grove
Village and Amita Health St. Alexius Medical Center Hoffman Estates among the
top 15 Best Hospitals in the Chicago metropolitan area. Amita Health Elk Grove
Village finished 11th, and Amita Health Hinsdale and Amita Health Hoffman
Estates tied for 14th in the magazine's annual rankings for the Chicago area. In
U.S. News' statewide hospital rankings for Illinois, the three medical centers
ranked in the top 20, with Amita Health Elk Grove Village finishing in a two-way
tie for 12th, and Amita Health Hinsdale and Amita Health Hoffman Estates tying
for 16th. The annual Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, were
developed to help consumers determine which hospitals provide the best care for
the most serious or complicated medical conditions and procedures. The rankings
help guide patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25
specialties, procedures and conditions.

State Bank completes acquisition

WONDER LAKE -- The State Bank Group announced it has completed its acquisition
of Harvard Savings Bank. Financial terms were not announced. The acquisition
increases The State Bank Group's number of bank locations from six to nine. The
increase strengthens The State Bank Group's presence in McHenry County and
expands it to Grundy County. Harvard Savings Bank's locations will continue to
operate under their respective branch names. "The acquisition completes the
first of its kind for The State Bank Group and is an important first step in our
growth strategy", said Stephen Mitchell, president of The State Bank Group. As
of June 30, the assets of The State Bank Group total approximately $171 million
and Harvard Savings Bank total approximately $141 million.

Inland sells Palatine apartments

PALATINE -- Inland Real Estate Brokerage & Consulting said it has sold a
portfolio of apartment buildings, totaling 102 units, located within the Long
Valley Apartment complex in Palatine. Paul L. Rogers, president of Oak
Brook-based Inland Brokerage and Consulting, said the property was sold to
multiple owners for more than $80,000 a unit, which brings the total estimated
price to more than $8.2 million. The portfolio consists of 17 six-flat buildings
and a controlling interest in the Long Valley Apartment association. The
buildings provide a mix of 80 percent two-bedroom units and 20 percent
one-bedroom units that are landlord heated. "The sale and assembly of multiple
owners took 11 months to develop, market and close, but the effort was well
worth it, delivering pricing above $80,000 per unit for these 1970s vintage
buildings," Rogers said.

Union Partners buys steel firm

OAK BROOK -- Union Partners I LLC has acquired Michigan-based steel company Berg
Steel Corp. for an undisclosed sum. Berg Steel joins Union Partners' group of
steel service centers, including Lee Steel Holdings LLC, which has several
facilities across Michigan. "This acquisition is a perfect complement to our
Michigan infrastructure in Grand Rapids, Gibraltar and Farmington Hills; and we
are excited to welcome Berg Steel to our family of companies" said Paul Douglass
of Union Partners. Berg Steel will continue to operate as a service center
focused on a continuation and expansion of a more than 45 year history of
unmatched quality and service to its customers.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              212 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday

DeMalia named president of CHC

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D,18,18

LENGTH: 680 words


The president of Heywood Medical Group, John A. DeMalia, has been named as the
new president and chief executive officer of Community Health Connections Inc.
in Fitchburg.

A senior health care executive with more than 25-years experience in the
industry, Mr. DeMalia joined Heywood Medical Group in 2010 as executive
director; he was later named president. Mr. DeMalia previously served as
executive director and chief financial officer at Community Health Connections
in Gardner and Fitchburg for more than 10 years.

Mr. DeMalia holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Boston College and is a
certified public accountant. He is a member of the American College of
Healthcare Executives, the Healthcare Financial Management Association and the
Medical Group Management Association. He was awarded the first annual leadership
award at Community Health Connections, was the senior vice president of finance
and administration at the United Way of Central Massachusetts and served as
interim president. Prior to that, he was the chief financial officer of Vermont
Research Inc.

Mr. DeMalia is expected to begin his new job in September. His first project as
the new CEO will be overseeing the opening of CHC's new site on Nichols Road in
Fitchburg.

Certification earned

Six members of Fairlawn Rehabilitation Hospital's nursing staff recently earned
their certification as registered rehabilitation nurses. They are Cathy Caya of
Whitinsville, Kristen Corbett of Grafton, Tracy Duguay of Baldwinville, Margaret
Greenwood of Gardner, Ann Leger of Leicester, and Josephine Suelto of Worcester.
In addition to passing a national certification exam, CRRNs must be registered
nurses who have worked in the rehabilitation field for at least two years.

Recognized again

Milford Regional Medical Center Medical has been recognized for the third
consecutive year in U.S. News World Report's 2013-14 Best Hospitals rankings as
one of the top performing hospitals in the Worcester metropolitan area. The
medical center was also named one of three top-ranked hospitals out of 29 in
Central and Western Massachusetts and ranked 14 out of 115 hospitals statewide.

The latest rankings showcase 732 Best Regional Hospitals from nearly 4,800
hospitals across the country. Covering 94 metro areas in the U.S., the regional
hospital rankings complement the national rankings by including hospitals with
solid performances that are nearly at the level of nationally ranked
institutions.

Milford Regional was ranked high performing in geriatrics and pulmonology and
scored high in patient safety, demonstrating commitment to reducing accidents
and medical mistakes. The medical center also exceeded the state and national
average in patient satisfaction surveys achieving high "overall" and
"willingness to recommend" ratings.

Bronze award

Spring Valley Center, an 82-bed Genesis HealthCare skilled nursing center at 81
Chatham St., Worcester, has announced that it has been selected as a 2013
recipient of the Bronze -- Commitment to Quality award for its dedication to
improving the lives of patients and residents through improved quality care. The
award is one of three awards possible through the National Quality Award
program, presented by the American Health Care Association and National Center
for Assisted Living. The program honors facilities across the nation that have
demonstrated their commitment to improving quality care for seniors and
individuals with disabilities.

Implemented by AHCA/NCAL in 1996, the National Quality Award program is based on
the criteria of the Baldrige Performance Excellence Program. The program assists
providers of long-term and post-acute-care services in achieving their
performance excellence goals.

The program has three levels: bronze, silver and gold. Bronze applicants must
demonstrate their ability to implement a performance improvement system. As a
recipient of the Bronze award, Spring Valley Center may now move forward in
developing approaches and achieving performance levels that meet the criteria
required for the Silver -- Achievement in Quality award.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WTG


               Copyright 2013 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             August 28, 2011 Sunday
                                  ZWC EDITION

BUSINESS NOTES

BYLINE: TIM HARLOW; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2N

LENGTH: 446 words



HIGHLIGHT: Woodwinds named a 'Best Hospital' by U.S. News World Report


Woodwinds Hospital has been named a "Best Hospital" in the Twin Cities region by
U.S. News World Report in its 2011-12 Best Hospital rankings.

The annual list of top hospitals has been published for 22 years and this year's
list will be featured in the U.S. News Best Hospitals guidebook, which goes on
sale Tuesday.

Each of the 720 hospitals included in the list was ranked among the country's
best in at least one of 16 medical specialties, or it ranked among the top
hospitals in a metro area. Woodwinds, at 1925 Woodwinds Drive in Woodbury, was
lauded for its high performance in gynecology and orthopedic specialties. U.S.
News looked at more than 7,000 hospitals in 94 metropolitan areas to determine
its rankings.

The list is meant to serve patients who need a high level of specialty care due
to a challenging condition, age or added risk.

"These are referral centers where other hospitals send their sickest patients,"
said Avery Comarow, U.S. News rankings editor. "Hospitals like these are ones
you or those close to you should consider when stakes are high."

WOODBURY

Did you notice? Tinucci's is gone

In case you missed it, Tinucci's quietly left Woodbury over the July 4th
weekend. The family-run business is still operating its flagship restaurant in
Newport.

A spokeswoman said the closing of the diner at 2190 Eagle Creek Lane in Woodbury
occurred because business had dropped off slightly and John Tinucci had retired.

The Tinucci family has been in the food business for 52 years and is known for
its prime rib buffet and other theme buffets it serves at its Newport location,
at 396 21st St. The restaurant gained some unintended publicity last year when
former Minnesota Vikings receiver Randy Moss criticized Gus Tinucci over the
buffet he set up at a team practice. Other Vikings players came to Tinucci's
defense.

City approves plans for funeral home

The Woodbury Planning Commission has approved a conditional use permit that will
allow O'Halloran Murphy Co. to build a funeral chapel on a vacant parcel of land
behind Walgreens at the intersection of Valley Creek Road and Donegal Drive.

The 12,600-square-foot building in the Reliant City Center East will have a
colonial look with a brown brick facade, and the parking lot will have room for
72 spaces, according to the plans. The permit does not allow for a crematorium.

OAKDALE

Denny's donates to veterans memorial

Denny's Restaurant at Interstate 94 and Century Avenue is helping to raise money
so that Oakdale can build a Veterans Memorial. The restaurant will donate 10
percent of its sales between 4 and 10 p.m. Monday and Tuesday.

TIM HARLOW

Have business news for this column? E-mail it to harlow@startribune.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Ohio State Wexner Medical Center among nation's best for 25th straight year

LENGTH: 377  words



Columbus: Ohio State University has issued the following news release:
For the 25th consecutive year, The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center
is among the best hospitals in the nation, according to the latest U.S. News &
World Report "Best Hospitals" rankings, released today. The hospital system
scored among the top 1 percent of all hospitals in the country.


Ohio State Wexner Medical Center is again named central Ohio's No. 1 hospital,
and is ranked third in the state, behind only Cleveland Clinic and University
Hospitals of Cleveland.
In the 2017-2018 rankings, Ohio State is recognized as a national leader in
seven specialties, including: ear, nose and throat (otolaryngology);nephrology;
cardiology and heart surgery; neurology and neurosurgery; cancer; pulmonology;
and diabetes and endocrinology. Each specialty improved in rank over the
previous year.
Additionally, five specialties were named as high performing: gastroenterology
and GI surgery; geriatrics; orthopedics; rehabilitation; and urology. These
areas scored nearly as well as nationally ranked programs.
When it comes to common adult procedures and conditions rated by U.S. News, Ohio
State is recognized as high performing in abdominal aortic aneurysm repair,
aortic valve surgery, heart bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)and lung cancer surgery.
The "Best Hospitals" rankings are considered a trusted resource for consumers
and a benchmarking tool for the healthcare industry. Rankings are based on
several criteria, including clinical outcomes, patient safety and reputation.
"We're incredibly proud of the progress our teams have made as the region's
leader in health care excellence. Ranking among the top 1 percent of all
hospitals in the country is truly an honor. Each member of our staff and faculty
give their best every day to improve people's lives throughout Ohio and beyond,"
said David P. McQuaid, CEO of The Ohio State University Health System and COO of
the Wexner Medical Center. "Evaluations such as this reflect the long-term
commitment we have to serving our communities."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL RANKS HIGH IN STATE, NATION

BYLINE: State Journal, wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 338 words


University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics is the top hospital in the state
for the second year in a row and among the nation's top 50 hospitals in nine
nationally ranked medical specialties, two more than last year, according to
U.S. News and World Report's latest rankings released Tuesday.

According to Lisa Brunette, UW spokeswoman, UW's rankings in the specialties
are: nephrology, 19; ear, nose and throat, 27; geriatrics, 27; pulmonology, 31;
urology, 34; cancer, 47; gastroenterology/GI surgery, 50; gynecology, 50;
neurology and neurosurgery, 50.

Last year, St. Mary's Hospital ranked 11th among Wisconsin hospitals and was
recognized in two high-performing specialties: geriatrics and
diabetes/endocrinology. This year, the hospital did not rank.

St. Mary's spokesman Steve Van Dinter said he is looking into the rankings
methodology to see why the hospital did not rank this year.

Meriter Hospital is ranked 12th out of 14 in the state and recognized as
high-performing in gynecology and orthopedics.

U.S. News and World Report recognized and ranked 14 Wisconsin hospitals for
quality. UW Hospital was one of five in the state that was ranked nationally.

Last Williamson Bicycle Works closes

After closing its Downtown location late last year, Williamson Bicycle Works has
now shuttered its sole remaining location, at least for now.

The store's answering machine at 3729 E. Washington Ave. says the business has
"suspended its operations, as yet for an undetermined period of time." People
with pending bike orders can leave a message.

Owner Del Henning could not be reached for comment or clarification Tuesday. No
information or acknowledgement about the suspension was posted on the store's
website, Facebook page or blog.

Henning opened the East Washington location in 2002 and moved all inventory and
operations to that location in November 2012 after closing the Downtown store,
at 640 W. Washington Ave.

The store originally operated for eight years at 601 Williamson St. before
moving to the East Washington location.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

Primary Children's gets national nod in US News' best hospital rankings

BYLINE: Wendy Leonard Deseret News

LENGTH: 931 words


SALT LAKE CITY ? Zackery Alexander is an active and lively 2-year-old, so it was
odd when he had trouble breathing earlier this year. "I just thought he had
swallowed a toy or something," said his mother, Julie Alexander. A trip to the
emergency room ended in a much more severe diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy,
a genetic condition ultimately requiring a trip to the top of the heart
transplant list at Primary Children's Medical Center.

Zack and his mom have since spent three solid months in a patient room at the
hospital, awaiting the heart that arrived suddenly on Tuesday, and they both
have been glad not to have been stuck anywhere else. "He really likes the
doctors and nurses here. He calls them his friends," Alexander said. "You can
see how much they love and care about him, and he can see that, too. They have
made it much more comfortable for all of us." In fact, no expense was spared to
make the Lehi family's lengthy and somewhat stressful time at the pediatric
hospital as enjoyable as possible. Nurses, Alexander said, would step in
whenever they were needed and every effort was made to make Zack feel happy and
maintain as much health as he could during the trying time. "There's just
something really amazing about this place," she said. "They're like my medical
family." And the efforts of numerous staff at Primary Children's haven't gone
without notice, as the hospital again ranked among the top children's facilities
in the country in the latest U.S. News & World Report report card, released
Tuesday. Compared with 179 pediatric facilities nationwide, Primary Children's
placed in the top 50 in five of 10 specialties surveyed. It was one of 87
facilities in the country that made the rankings in at least one category,
landing 16th in neurology and neurosurgery, 22nd in cardiology and heart
surgery, 25th in orthopedics, 37th in gastroenterology and gastro-intestinal
surgery, and 48th in urology. Hospital CEO Katie Welkie said that while the
report highlights areas in which the hospital is doing well, it also "helps
identify places we can improve." "We're always working on being better," she
said, crediting a formative partnership with the University of Utah College of
Medicine, whose professors and fellows make up the majority of physicians
working at Primary Children's. Welkie said the staff's focus on quality care,
innovation, research and providing the best for patients and their families
aligns with the organization's purpose. "Part of being a high-quality
organization, a learning organization, is continually seeking ways to improve
care," she said. The Salt Lake Intermountain Healthcare-owned hospital serves
children within a five-state area of more than 450,000 square miles. Its 289-bed
facility saw 5,274 impatient and 12,670 outpatient surgeries in the last year,
as well as 40,250 emergency room and 311,705 outpatient visits, making it a very
busy hospital, Welkie said. "We want patients who are close to us to come here,"
she said. "We exist in the community for that purpose." Alexander thinks she
might even go through withdrawals after leaving the hospital. If all goes well
with Tuesday's dramatic surgery, she and her son will spend another six weeks at
Primary Children's. It's much better than his original prognosis, which was
leaning toward employing an artificial heart ? "a big, heavy machine you have to
cart around with you everywhere you go," Alexander said. They're not out of the
woods just yet, but she has always trusted that staff at the hospital have her
son's best interest in mind. "They've made it easier to go through all this,"
she said. The rankings, based on patient outcomes and other data as well as
physician surveys, highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in the following
specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology and GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. The reputation of the
hospitals makes up a quarter of the ranking score, a smaller percentage than has
been used in the past, which somewhat levels the playing ground. But the more
competitive hospitals tend to be well-known and in bigger cities, Welkie said.
Survey questions also changed each year, precluding hospitals from anticipating
ranking outcomes. But, she said, the objective never changes. "You do the right
thing, and if it benefits you, that's great," Welkie said. "But our absolute
priority is providing highest value care." She said Primary Children's offers a
variety of services not necessarily found in adult hospitals, including a number
of innovative therapies that inspire creativity and inclusion, as well as foster
overall improvement and health. The hospital fell in the 2013-14 rankings in all
but one specialty, but it made significant advances in neurology, or care
dealing with the nervous system. The hospital also didn't place in two areas it
has in previous years ? cancer and nephrology treatment. It only provides
targets to improve upon, Welkie said. "We are proud to have ranked so well in so
many categories. It provides an incredible resource to those we serve." The
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia bested the Boston Children's Hospital on the
U.S. News' list, placing in the top three among nine of the 10 specialty
rankings. A complete listing of the nation's best children's hospitals can be
found online, at www.health.usnews.com. The publication intends to release its
annual rankings on adult hospitals July 16. Email: wleonard@deseretnews.com,
Twitter: wendyleonards

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              217 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 19, 2012 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

OHSU: U.S. News & World Report Ranks OHSU Hospital No. 1 in Portland, statewide

LENGTH: 222  words


New Delhi, Sept. 19 -- Oregon Health & Science University Hospital ranks No. 1
in the Portland metro area as well as statewide, according to U.S. News Best
Hospitals 2012-13. The metro area includes Portland, Hillsboro and Beaverton,
Ore., and Vancouver, Wash., the news magazine reports.



OHSU's Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery - or its Ear Nose &
Throat specialty - ranks 32nd nationally. Fewer than 150 hospitals out of the
5,000 evaluated performed well enough to rank nationally in at least one
specialty.

Eleven of OHSU Hospital's adult specialties were ranked "high-performing":

* Cancer

* Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* Diabetes & Endocrinology

* Gastroenterology

* Geriatrics

* Gynecology

* Nephrology

* Neurology & Neurosurgery

* Orthopedics

* Pulmonology

* Urology

While reputation continues to play an important role in the rankings, clinical
data such as patient outcomes and processes of care have become central, the
editors report. The hospital rankings "help steer patients to hospitals with
strong skills in the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest
challenges."

In addition to adult specialty rankings, U.S. News ranks children's hospitals,
and last month they announced OHSU Doernbecher Children's Hospital ranks among
the nation's top 50 children's hospitals in six specialties for 2012-13.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday

Magazine puts Wolfson in top 50 for pediatric care

SECTION: Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 254 words


Wolfson Children's Hospital in Jacksonville is among the top 50 hospitals in six
of 10 pediatric specialties as rated by U.S. News & World Report in its
2012-2013 Best Children's Hospitals.

In pediatric categories, the hospital, part of Baptist Health, was ranked 25th
in urology; 33rd in pulmonology; 38th in neurology and neurosurgery; 39th in
diabetes and endocrinology; 40th in cardiology and heart surgery; and 49th in
cancer care.

Other categories ranked in the magazine's report were neonatology, nephrology,
orthopedics and gastroenterology.

Shands Hospital for Children at the University of Florida in Gainesville also
made the list, ranking in the top 50 in seven specialties. It ranked 13th in
diabetes and endocrinology; 24th in cardiology and heart surgery; 26th in
gastroenterology; 27th in nephrology; 31st in pulmonology; 33rd in neonatology;
and 49th in neurology and neurosurgery.

U.S. News surveyed 178 pediatric centers to obtain data such as availability of
key resources and ability to prevent complications and infections. The hospital
survey made up 75 percent of the rankings. A separate reputational survey in
which 1,500 pediatric specialists - 150 in each specialty - were asked where
they would send the sickest children in their specialty made up the remaining 25
percent.

Eighty hospitals ranked in at least one specialty.

To view the rankings by specialty, go to usnews.com/childrenshospitals. The
rankings will also be published in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook,
available in August.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Florida Times-Union

                              219 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday

Report: 3 Utah hospitals ranked among nation's top 50

BYLINE: Ben Lockhart Deseret News

LENGTH: 987 words


By Ben Lockhart

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Intermountain Medical Center's pulmonology program, the
University of Utah's Huntsman Cancer Institute and the U.'s Ear, Nose and Throat
Clinic all received top 50 designations Tuesday in the 28th annual U.S. News &
World Report Best Hospital Rankings.

The rankings, which analyzed more than 4,500 hospitals in 25 specialties, also
recognized University of Utah Health Care Hospitals and Clinics, and
Intermountain Medical Center with a lesser, un-numbered "high-performing"
ranking in the areas of urology, ophthalmology and nephrology.

The U. also ranked as "high performing" in orthopedics, pulmonology, and
neurology and neurosurgery. Intermountain Medical Center was rated the same in
knee replacement surgery, heart failure treatment, heart bypass surgery,
ophthalmology, urology, nephrology, and diabetes and endocrinology.

The U.'s operations ranked No. 1 in the state, followed by Intermountain Medical
Center, and no other Utah hospitals were recognized by the report. That marks a
change from last year, when Utah Valley Regional Medical Center - now Utah
Valley Hospital - and Dixie Regional Medical Center were also ranked.

Ears, nose and throat

The U.'s Ears, Nose & Throat Clinic achieved the highest ranking of any
specialty in the state, coming in at No. 18 after being unranked last year.

Dr. Clough Shelton, director of otolaryngology, the field of ears, nose and
throat treatment, said he was "thrilled and very proud" of the clinic's ranking
but not necessarily surprised.

"We have a great team of faculty who not only are they really good doctors, but
they are innovative people who are doing excellent research," Shelton said. "I
think that has helped attract some recognition to our program."

Otolaryngology, which includes everything from hearing loss to difficulty
swallowing, is "a diverse specialty" and "a very competitive specialty," making
the new ranking especially rewarding, he said.

"We see this as an affirmation of the work that we've done," Shelton said.

Pulmonology

The U.S. News report ranked Intermountain Medical Center's pulmonary program
48th, marking "the first time in its 10 year history" that a specialty at the
hospital has landed in the top 50, said Intermountain Healthcare spokesman Jess
Gomez.

Dr. Denitza Blagev, director of Intermountain's Schmidt Chest Clinic and a
pulmonologist at Intermountain Medical Center, was quick to share the credit.

"Not even just the pulmonary division, but I think one of the strengths we have
is ... really good collaborations with the other departments at Intermountain -
cardiology to radiology (to) oncology," Blagev told the Deseret News.

"Having this collaboration really communicates to our patients that we really
are excellent at what we do and we do it because want to help people," she said.

Such collaboration allows lung patients to get comprehensive care as quickly as
possible for their related health problems, Blagev said.

Gomez credited the program's ability to rapidly and precisely identify patients
for common illnesses such as pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, as well as much rarer illnesses such as pulmonary hypertension.

He also cited "some of the best outcome rates in the nation" and innovative
practices that include "advances in telehealth visits and remote patient
monitoring."

Cancer treatment

Huntsman Cancer Institute was ranked No. 38, a jump of nine spots from last
year's report. Dr. Jon Sweetenham, senior director for clinical affairs at the
institute, said the center's reach likely played a big role in its high ranking.

"(We've been) expanding our clinical research efforts so we can reach a wider
number of patients and give them cutting-edge therapies," Sweetenham said. "We
have been able to serve an increasing proportion of the Intermountain West so we
see patients from (throughout the) region. I think all of that has actually
enhanced our reputation."

Despite the abundance of medical rankings, those submitted by U.S. News are
known to carry a lot of weight, he said, because of how thorough and
long-running they are.

"Many potential physicians who might come to work here do take note," Sweetenham
said. "Patients who come here do take note of those rankings."

Although the large majority of the ranking methodology focused on clinical
operations rather than research, Sweetenham said Huntsman Cancer Institute's
renowned research side is a rising tide that lifts all boats, as one of only 48
organizations designated as comprehensive cancer centers by the National Cancer
Institute.

"We have had very robust research for many years now," he said.

Huntsman Cancer Institute CEO Mary Beckerle cited patients' happiness with their
care as tightly connected to the high ranking.

"Our patient satisfaction surveys have frequently placed the cancer center in
the top percentile nationally," Beckerle said in a statement. "It is gratifying
to see (the institute) included in such a distinguished peer group of hospitals
through this rigorous assessment of our cancer care programs."

Neither the U. or Intermountain were ranked "below average" in any applicable
specialty.

Methodology

U.S. News' methodology included "risk-adjusted survival and readmission rates,
volume, patient experience, patient safety and quality of nursing," according to
the magazine.

Along with objective numerical data across more than 2,600 metrics, 125,000
doctors nationwide were surveyed for their "expert opinion on where they would
send their most challenging cases," the U.S. News explained. The study put 152
hospitals in the top 50 in at least one specialty area.

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, claimed the honor of top overall
hospital in the report, followed by the Cleveland Clinic, Baltimore's John
Hopkins Hospital, Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and the UCSF Medical
Center in San Francisco.

Email: blockhart@deseretnews.com

Twitter: benlockhartnews

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              220 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

UCLA HOSPITAL TOPS IN WEST

BYLINE: By Barbara Jones Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 393 words


UCLA Medical Center was named the best hospital in the Western U.S. for the 19th
consecutive year and Cedars-Sinai and USC hospitals also garnered recognition in
an annual survey of the nation's medical facilities conducted by U.S. News &
World Report.

Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center ranked third in the country, behind Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., in the
list released Friday on the magazine's Web site, www.usnews.com.

With UC-San Francisco Medical Center in seventh place, Stanford Hospital ranking
16th and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center rated 18th, four California facilities were
included on what U.S. News called its ``Best Hospitals Honor Roll.''

``To once again be in the company of the nation's best hospitals -- when rapid
changes in health care constantly challenge our commitment to excellence --
makes us extraordinarily proud of our dedicated physicians, scientists, nurses
and staff,'' said a statement by Dr. Gerald S. Levy, dean of the David Deafen
School of Medicine at UCLA.

In conducting its annual survey, U.S. News analyzed data from 5,453 hospitals
and produced 16 specialty categories on which they were judged. Based on
reputation, mortality and other care-related factors, just 170 hospitals
ultimately scored high enough to appear in any of the rankings.

Hospitals earned 2 points for taking at or near the top of a specialty, 1 point
if ranked slightly lower.

UCLA, for instance, received 25 points in 14 specialities, ranking first in
geriatrics, fourth in urology and fifth in digestive disorders, ophthalmology,
psychiatry and rheumatology. UCLA's Jonsson Cancer ranked 10th in the cancer
category.

Cedars-Sinai received eight points in seven specialties. It ranked eighth in
gastrointestinal disorders, 15th in cardiac surgery and 17th in neurology and
neurosurgery.

Also included on the list of 170 facilities that made the U.S. News list, USC
University Hospital ranked seventh in ophthalmology, 45th in gynecology and 49th
in neurology and neurosurgery. The USC Norris Cancer Hospital ranked 45th in
cancer, the first time the facility has been recognized by U.S. News.

``We are very proud of the hard work and dedication that our medical staff and
employees display each day as they care for our patients,'' said Debbie Walsh,
president and CEO of University and Norris Cancer hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo: U.S. News & World Report has given the Ronald Reagan UCLA
Medical Center its No. 3 national ranking. Johns Hopkins was No. 1 and the Mayo
Clinic was No. 2. Photo Courtesy of UCLA Health System

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

NYU Langone Medical Center Ranks Top 10 in Nation on US News & World Report's
'Best Hospitals 2016-2017 Honor Roll'

LENGTH: 465  words


Aug. 2 -- NYU Langone Medical Center is ranked No. 10 in the nation on U.S. News
& World Report's "Best Hospitals 2016-2017 Honor Roll," the medical center's
highest national ranking received to date from the publication. Additionally,
for the fifth year in a row, NYU Langone ranked No. 2 in New York State and No.
2 in the New York metro area.

"These rankings speak to our national reputation for providing exceptional,
multidisciplinary clinical care," says Robert I. Grossman, MD, the Saul J.
Farber Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Medical Center. "Most important, they are a
testament to the NYU Langone staff. Guided by the needs of our patients and
their families, they deliver the expert, leading-edge, and compassionate care
that draw people to us from around our city, our nation, and our world."

Twelve of the medical center's specialty areas received national rankings-7 of
which are in the top 10 and 2 of which are in the top 5: cancer, cardiology and
heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, ear, nose, and throat,
gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, orthopaedics, neurology and
neurosurgery, rheumatology, rehabilitation, pulmonology, and urology.

Of note, NYU Langone is the only hospital in New York to receive top 10 rankings
for all 3 musculoskeletal specialty areas of orthopaedics, rheumatology, and
rehabilitation. Additionally, NYU Langone's Rusk Rehabilitation was again ranked
the best in New York State and among the top 10 in the country, an honor held
for 28 years since U.S. News & World Report first introduced its annual "Best
Hospitals" rankings in 1989.

Both the medical center and NYU School of Medicine continue to rise in the U.S.
News rankings. Earlier this year, NYU School of Medicine ranked No. 11 out of
140 medical schools nationwide in U.S. News & World Report's 2016 "Best Graduate
Schools" listing.

A leader in quality care, for the third consecutive year, NYU Langone scored No.
1 for overall patient safety and quality among leading academic medical centers
(AMCs) across the nation that were included in the University HealthSystem
Consortium (UHC) Quality and Accountability Study. The medical center also
ranked No. 1 on the UHC's inaugural Ambulatory Care Quality and Accountability
Leadership Award and received their Bernard A. Birnbaum Quality and Safety
Award. Named in memory of Bernard A. Birnbaum, NYU Langone's former Chief of
Hospital Operations and UHC board member, the award recognizes organizations
that demonstrate superior performance in quality and safety.

The annual U.S. News "Best Hospitals" ranking evaluates hospitals in 16 adult
specialties. This year's Honor Roll recognizes 20 hospitals that are unusually
competent across a range of adult specialties, procedures, and conditions.

Source: NYU Langone Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

RONALD REAGAN UCLA RANKS TOP IN L.A.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 302 words


Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center was ranked among the top five in the nation
and the best in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, according to rankings
released Tuesday by U.S. News & World Report.

In the metro area, the hospital earned a top ranking with national recognition
in 15 medical specialty areas. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center ranked second with
recognition for 12 specialties, while USC University Hospital placed third,
earning national rankings in eight specialty areas.

UCI Medical Center, St. Vincent Medical Center, City of Hope, USC Norris Cancer
Hospital, Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, Resnick
Neuropsychiatric Hospital and Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center
rounded out the magazine's top 10 in the Los Angeles area.

Children's Hospital Los Angeles ranked eighth nationally on the magazine's honor
roll for children's hospitals.

Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center ranked 10th among the nation's
cancer-treatment hospitals, while City of Hope ranked 17th.

Providence Holy Cross Medical Center in Mission Hills was rated 18th among
Southern California hospitals, and noted as "high performing" in the specialties
of pulmonary, orthopedics, urology, geriatrics and kidney disorders.

Providence Tarzana ranked No. 39 in the Los Angeles metro area, with special
recognition for its urology program.

The 22nd annual Best Hospitals issue rated hospitals in 16 high-stakes medical
specialties, from heart care to diabetes and neurology.

According to the magazine, physicians at the highly ranked facilities see far
more patients with critical needs than do doctors at many community hospitals.
As a result, they have more experience and understand better how to deliver
quality care.

The magazine, available on newsstands on Aug. 30, evaluated 4,285 hospitals for
its annual rankings.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

Center's efforts lauded

BYLINE: Monica Rodriguez, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 608 words


POMONA - Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center has long been the place to go to
have a baby or get cardiac care services.

However, it excels in other areas as well.

This week, it was recognized as a top hospital in gynecology and nephrology
services by U.S. News & World Report, making the publication's 2011-'12 Best
Hospitals rankings for the Los Angeles metro area.

This is the first time the hospital has been included in the publication's
rankings.

"U.S. News has long been respected as a resource in guiding people to highly
ranked hospitals and medical centers that perform safe, high-quality and
leading-edge medical care. To be ranked amongst these worthy hospitals, for the
first time, is an honor for Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center and a benefit
for our patients," hospital President and Chief Executive Officer Richard E.
Yochum said.

"We have raised the bar for the quality of care provided for patients in need of
nephrology services and for women in need of gynecological care. We're honored
by these two distinctions and welcome patients from throughout the Los Angeles
basin and beyond in need of these services."

The rankings give consumers local options where they can access quality care
when they don't require special expertise or when they can't travel to national
institutions, according a joint statement from the publication and the hospital.

"These are hospitals we call `high performers.' They are fully capable of giving
most patients first-rate care, even if they have serious conditions or need
demanding procedures," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health rankings editor.

"Almost every major metro area has at least one of these hospitals."

Of 140 hospitals in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, 47 made the list and
Pomona Valley hospital was tied for 33rd place.

The No. 1 slot went to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, which
was also ranked fifth in the nation.

Making the rankings is an honor and is even more so because the hospital is in
the company of many prestigious medical institutions, said Dr. Victor Pappoe, a
nephrologist and chairman of the hospital's dialysis and transplant committee.

The hospital's dialysis program, which serves in-patients, is something that
helped the hospital earn the recognition, Pappoe said.

"I doubt very much that we would have (the recognition) if we didn't have the
in-house services we have now," he said.

The hospital's dialysis unit opened in 1998 through a partnership of its
administration, the fundraising efforts of the Auxiliary of Pomona Valley
Hospital Medical Center as well as the advice of the hospital's nephrologists
and kidney disease specialists, hospital spokeswoman Kathy Roche said.

The unit is run with the involvement of experienced nurses, Pappoe said.

"The administration was very kind and had very good foresight," he said.

The hospital's da Vinci Surgical Robot Program, which is used in hysterectomies,
helped shine a light on the hospital, said Dr. Simmi Dhaliwal, chairwoman of the
hospital's obstetrics and gynecology department from 2006 to 2010.

The robot has allowed gynecologists to perform hysterectomies using several
small incisions instead of a single large one, she said.

Patients experience less bleeding and pain and faster recoveries that allow
women to be active sooner, Dhaliwal said.

"That has definitely changed the face of gynecology," she said.

The recognition of U.S. News & World Report is an honor, Dhaliwal said, but the
hospital and its gynecology specialists have plans to bring in other services
such as a group specializing in gynecology and oncology.

"Really we're just growing bigger and better," Dhaliwal said.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Francisco Cuellar, right, and Simmi Dhaliwal, second from right, check
a video monitor as they position the da Vinci Robotic Surgical System on a woman
before surgery Monday at Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Laurinburg Exchange (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Moore Regional ranked one of the N.C. best

BYLINE: The Laurinburg Exchange, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 666 words


March 10--PINEHURST -- FirstHealth Moore Regional Hospital, including its
Richmond Memorial and Hoke campuses, has been recognized as one of the state's
best hospitals and as a top hospital in patient satisfaction by Business North
Carolina magazine.

Moore Regional ranked No. 5 in the "best hospital" ranking (tied with Caromont
Regional Medical Center in Gastonia) and No. 2 in the "patient picks" list.

"We are very pleased to be recognized by Business North Carolina magazine as one
of the top five best hospitals in North Carolina and as a top hospital for
patient satisfaction," said David J. Kilarski, chief executive officer for
FirstHealth of the Carolinas. "This achievement should resonate with each and
every FirstHealth employee and volunteer. It is truly an honor to be recognized
among the best, and these rankings help validate the hard work and dedication of
our employees, especially our outstanding medical staff."

Nearly 100 North Carolina hospitals were compared on varying quality measures to
assemble the "best hospital" list. The criteria included 24 different metrics,
including patient satisfaction, readmission rates and infection rates. The
rankings are calculated by using data from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid,
Blue Cross and Blue Shield Inc. of North Carolina, The Leapfrog Group (a
national nonprofit that advocates for hospital transparency) and U.S. News &
World Report.

Both FirstHealth Moore Regional Hospital-Hoke Campus and Richmond Memorial
Hospital share this recognition, because they are divisions of Moore Regional,
the flagship hospital in Pinehurst.

The "patient picks" list is a result of The Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems that surveys hospital patients between 48 hours
and six weeks of discharge. Top "patient picks" are based on the percentage of
patients who would recommend the hospital to others. Moore Regional's No. 2
ranking was based on a score of 84 percent. The average statewide score is 71
percent, while the national average is 72 percent.

In this year's rankings, Moore Regional performed at or above average in nearly
every category, being above the national average in patient satisfaction; heart
failure and pneumonia death rates; central line and catheter infection rates;
and hospital safety.

"Moore Regional is honored to once again be recognized among the best hospitals
in the state," said Dr. John Krahnert Jr., FirstHealth's chief medical officer.
"This achievement is a testament to the commitment of our medical staff, the
nursing staff and everyone involved in the patient care experience to offer a
level of medical excellence that is recognized among the best in North
Carolina."

The Business North Carolina story also noted Moore Regional Hospital's
recognition by Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina as a "cutting-edge
hospital" for cardiac care, knee and hip replacement, and maternity care.

Also noted in the Business North Carolina story was Moore Regional's
commendation as a U.S. News & World Report "Top-Performing Hospital" in the
following adult specialties: abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), colon cancer surgery, geriatrics, heart
bypass surgery, heart failure, hip replacement, knee replacement, lung cancer
surgery and urology.

"We are committed to providing compassionate patient care, the latest technology
and clinical expertise," Krahnert said. "To be recognized as a cutting-edge
hospital and a Top-Performing Hospital by U.S. News & World Report for multiple
specialties solidifies that we provide exceptional, quality care throughout our
system and in our region."

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

7:27 pm |

Laurinburg man gets life for murder, rape

11:34 am |

Scotland family, civic club assist local food pantry

11:11 am |

BlueScope partners to help with PTSD

___ (c)2017 The Laurinburg Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) Visit The Laurinburg
Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) at www.laurinburgexchange.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170310-1LX-Moore-Regional-ranked-one-of-the-N-C-best-0310-20170310

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LX


                     Copyright 2017 The Laurinburg Exchange

                              225 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 Drive Edition

OU Medical Center named best hospital in metro area

BYLINE: STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 286 words


OU Medical Center has been named the best hospital in the Oklahoma City metro
area by a national magazine.

OU Medical Center topped the U.S. News Media & World Report's 2011-12 Best
Hospitals rankings for Oklahoma City, outdistancing 37 other hospitals.

"The U.S. News rankings are highly respected by consumers and national health
care leaders, so we are appreciative and humbled by the recognition," OU Medical
Center CEO Cole Eslyn said. "It is a great tribute to our staff and their
dedication to providing outstanding patient care and cutting-edge treatments."

The magazine also recognized OU Medical Center for high performance in five
specialty areas: cancer, urology, gynecology, nephrology, and ear, nose and
throat.

"We are honored to be recognized for our commitment to excellence and
high-quality health care at OU Medicine," said M. Dewayne Andrews, senior vice
president and provost of the OU Health Sciences Center and dean of the
University of Oklahoma College of Medicine. "As the state's only academic
medical center, we strive to be the best in everything we do, from treatment to
research to education.

"We are blessed with highly skilled, highly dedicated health care professionals,
and this ranking is a byproduct of their hard work."

U.S. News also ranked Baptist Medical Center of Oklahoma and St. Anthony
Hospital among the metro's top hospitals.

The rankings, published annually for the past 22 years, showcase 720 hospitals.
Each is ranked among the country's top hospitals in at least one medical
specialty or ranked among the best hospitals in its area.

U.S. News previously honored The Children's Hospital at OU Medical Center for
having one of the best urology programs in the country.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OU Medical Center is shown in Oklahoma City. PHOTO PROVIDED

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Sarasota Memorial Recognized as Top Performer in US News' Best Hospitals Report

LENGTH: 309  words


Aug. 2 -- Sarasota Memorial was one of only 63 hospitals nationwide to earn
"high performing" ratings -  the top rating - in all nine inpatient surgical
procedures and chronic conditions evaluated in U.S. News' 2016-17 "Best
Hospitals" report.

The annual "Best Hospitals" report recognizes hospitals that excel in treating
the most challenging patients. Over the past decade, Sarasota Memorial has been
recognized nationally in multiple specialties - and remains the only local
hospital consistently ranked as the region's best.

In U.S. News' latest report, Sarasota Memorial had the best rankings in the
Sarasota-Venice-North Port-Bradenton region.

On a national level, the health system was recognized as a "high performer" (top
10 percent in the nation) for the adult specialty Gastroenterology and GI
Surgery. Sarasota Memorial also was one of only 63 hospitals in the U.S. to earn
"high performing" ratings in all nine inpatient surgical procedures and chronic
conditions evaluated by U.S. News:

* Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Repair

* Aortic Valve Surgery

* Heart Bypass Surgery

* Heart Failure

* Colon Cancer Surgery

* Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)

* Hip Replacement

* Knee Replacement

* Lung Cancer Surgery

For more information about the hospital's elite place among high performing
hospitals, click here.

The Best Hospitals rankings recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients. Objective measures such as patient survival and safety
data, adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other data largely determined the
rankings in most specialties.

Sarasota Memorial CEO David Verinder attributed the hospital's consistently high
rankings to the exceptional expertise and dedication of its entire team - from
physicians and nurses to leaders, staff and volunteers throughout the health
system.

Source: Sarasota Memorial Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       April 6, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Aspirus Wausau Hospital Named Among '100 Great Hospitals in America' by Becker's
Hospital Review

LENGTH: 280  words


April 6 -- Aspirus Wausau Hospital is one of the "100 Great Hospitals in
America" for 2017 according to Becker's Hospital Review's annual ranking.

This is the third straight year Aspirus Wausau Hospital has made Becker's annual
list, which was released on April 3. Aspirus Wausau Hospital is one of three
Wisconsin hospitals on Becker's list; the others are UW Health-University
Hospital in Madison and Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin Froedtert
Hospital in Milwaukee.

"Earning a spot on Becker's '100 Great Hospitals in America' list affirms our
continued objective of providing high quality and safe health care for residents
of the communities we serve," said Aspirus Wausau Hospital President, Darrell
Lentz. "We are truly honored to receive this recognition from Becker's Hospital
Review for the third year in a row."

According to Becker's, the hospitals included on the "100 Great Hospitals in
America" list are renowned for excellence and are industry leaders in
innovation, quality patient care and clinical research, and have received
recognition across various publications and accrediting organizations.

Aspirus Wausau Hospital was selected by Becker's Hospital Review's editorial
team for inclusion based on analysis of several ranking and award agencies,
including U.S. News and World Report's 2016-17 Honor Roll and specialty rankings
, CMS star ratings, Leapfrog grades, Truven Health Analytics top hospitals, Most
Wired hospitals and Magnet accreditation.

Becker's Hospital Review has published a version of this list since 2012. A full
list of the "100 Great Hospitals in America" can be found online at
beckershospitalreview.com.

Source: Aspirus Wausau Hospital

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

Kentucky: UK HealthCare is No. 1 in Kentucky in Latest U.S. News Best Hospitals
Rankings

LENGTH: 742  words

DATELINE: New York



 Frankfort: Eastern Kentucky University has issued the following news release:



 UK HealthCare's University of Kentucky Albert B. Chandler Hospital is No. 1 in
Kentucky in the U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals Rankings released
today. It also is the only hospital in the state rated as High Performing in
cancer. The complete rankings for 2016-17 are now available at
http://health.usnews.com /best-hospitals.









 In addition to being named as top hospital in Kentucky, UK HealthCare is
nationally ranked No. 45 in Geriatrics and "High Performing" in six specialty
areas including: Cancer, Diabetes and Endocrinology, Nephrology, Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Orthopedics and Pulmonology.







 UK HealthCare also ranked as high performing - the highest rating - in eight
out of nine types of Common Adult Procedures and Conditions including:  Heart
Bypass Surgery, Heart Failure, Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm, Colon Cancer Surgery,
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), Hip Replacement, Knee Replacement
and Lung Cancer.







 "This acknowledges the exemplary work of our health care team in providing the
highest quality patient care in the Commonwealth," said Dr. Michael Karpf, UK
executive vice president for health affairs. "We are committed to being one of
the premier academic medical centers in the country and dedicated in serving
those who need complex medical care without ever having to travel far from their
home."







 To be recognized as a Best Hospital this year, a hospital had to have been
categorized in the American Hospital Association annual survey database as a
general medical-surgical hospital and had to earn either at least one national
ranking in the 12 data-driven specialties or at least four ratings of "high
performing" across the 12 specialty rankings and nine rated procedures and
conditions.







 "This honor belongs to our physicians, nurses and staff," said Dr. Phillip K.
Chang, UK HealthCare chief medical officer. "Every day and every night, they go
above and beyond to make sure our patients get the best possible care."







 The U.S. News Best Hospitals analysis includes multiple clinical specialties,
procedures and conditions. Scores are based on a variety of patient outcome and
care-related factors, such as patient safety and nurse staffing.







 In February 2016, UK HealthCare achieved Magnet Status - the highest
institutional honor awarded for nursing excellence from the American Nurses
Credentialing Center's (ANCC) Magnet Recognition Program. This designation
factors into the U.S. News Rankings and impacted this year's score.







 "Our entire interprofessional team is proud of our Magnet designation and its
impact and significance for UK HealthCare and the patients we serve," said
Colleen Swartz, UK HealthCare chief nursing executive. "The team's work has been
exemplified in the production of superb clinical outcomes as well as excellence
in patient and family centered care and are well deserving of this recognition
based on their hard work, commitment and scientific approach to care across the
continuum."







 UK HealthCare has seen the number of patients who are 75 or older nearly double
in the past 10 years. This volume and the level of care for these patients
attributed to the national ranking in geriatrics. Additionally, the University
of Kentucky and UK HealthCare are home to the only National Institute on Aging
(NIA) funded Alzheimer's disease center in Kentucky with the prestigious UK
Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, and Markey Cancer Center is the only National
Cancer Institute-designated center in the Commonwealth.







 "Our goal is to provide the safest and highest quality patient care to those
who come to us from every county in Kentucky, as well as from many other states,
by providing them the expertise of integrated, multidisciplinary teams working
to solve the most complex health issues," said Bo Cofield, UK HealthCare vice
president and chief clinical operations officer. "I congratulate our entire UK
HealthCare team on this tremendous accomplishment and commend their work and
dedication to patient care in the Commonwealth."







 UK is the University for Kentucky. At UK, we are educating more students,
treating more patients with complex illnesses and conducting more research and
service than at any time in our 150-year history.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 4, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Lankenau Medical Center Named Among Becker's '100 Hospitals and Health Systems
with Great Heart Programs'

LENGTH: 335  words


Nov. 4 -- Becker's Hospital Review has named Lankenau Medical Center, part of
Main Line Health's Lankenau Heart Institute, among its list of "100 Hospitals
and Health Systems with Great Heart Programs." The award recognizes hospitals
leading the nation in cardiovascular care.

Lankenau Medical Center, is one of only five hospitals in the region able to
perform transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), and is among the highest
performing TAVR Centers in the nation. It is also heavily involved in clinical
research, and its cardiac surgeons have performed more than 1,300 robotic heart
bypass procedures-more than any hospital in the nation. Lankenau Medical Center
has been named among Truven Health Analytics' 50 Top Cardiovascular Hospitals
for the past eight consecutive years. U.S. News & World Report also recognized
the hospital as high-performing for heart failure and heart bypass surgery in
its common care ratings.

"Lankenau Medical Center is honored to be a part of this prestigious list," said
Phil Robinson, President, Lankenau Medical Center. "Our mission is to provide
the best care and offer the most advanced options to our patients, our
community, and throughout the region. We are proud of our clinical achievements
and industry leadership in the area of cardiovascular disease, thanks to a
tremendous team of physicians, nurses, employees and volunteers who provide the
highest quality care to our patients every day."

To develop the list, the Becker's Hospital Review editorial staff examines
several reputable ranking and award agencies, including U.S. News & World Report
rankings for cardiology and heart surgery, U.S. News' Common Care rankings for
heart bypass surgery and heart failure, Truven Health Analytics' cardiovascular
hospital rankings, CareChex rankings for cardiac care, Blue Distinction Centers
for Cardiac Care, ratings from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, Healthgrades
cardiology awards and hospitals who have received Magnet designation.

Source: Bryn Mawr Hospital

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Texas Children's Hospital Ranks 4th Among Nation's Best Pediatric Institutions
by U.S.News & World Report

LENGTH: 565  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Texas Children's Hospital has once again been named as a
national leader among pediatric hospitals in U.S.News & World Report's 2012-13
edition of Best Children's Hospitals. Ranked 4th among all children's hospitals
nationally and one of only 12 hospitals to achieve the Honor Roll designation,
Texas Children's is the only hospital in Texas - and the entire Southern region
of the U.S. - awarded this distinction. For more information, visit
www.usnews.texaschildrens.org.

"We are proud to have earned this recognition by U.S. News, again being ranked
as one of the nation's best pediatric hospitals," said Mark A. Wallace,
president and CEO of Texas Children's Hospital. "It is an outstanding
achievement and a tribute to our physicians and staff for their passion for our
mission and ardent dedication to excellence in patient care."

In addition to ranking children's hospitals overall, U.S. News also ranks
pediatric hospitals across 10 major subspecialties. This year, Texas Children's
was ranked in the top 10 for eight out of 10 categories; high rankings in a
minimum of three specialties also qualified Texas Children's for the 2012-13
Best Children's Hospitals Honor Roll, a distinction awarded to only 12
children's centers nationwide.

Texas Children's, together with academic partner Baylor College of Medicine
(BCM), continues to pioneer advancements in pediatric health care and earns the
Honor Roll distinction by being ranked among America's best in:

* #4 Cancer

* #3 Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* #3 Gastroenterology (digestive disorders)

* #5 Neurology & Neurosurgery

* #2 Neonatology

* #5 Nephrology (kidney disorders)

* #3 Pulmonology

* #7 Urology

* #14 Diabetes & Endocrinology

* #33 Orthopedics

"Texas Children's notable ranking, in the midst of other exemplary pediatric
institutions, is truly outstanding," said Dr. Mark Kline, physician-in-chief of
Texas Children's Hospital and chair of the Department of Pediatrics at BCM. "I'm
particularly proud that we have four subspecialties ranked among the top three
nationally and another three that are ranked among the top five. It's a
reflection of the outstanding commitment by our physicians, clinicians,
researchers and all employees to the highest standard of care for our patients."


The rankings are a result of a methodology that weighed a combination of
reputation, outcome and care-related measures such as nursing care, advanced
technology and credentialing, among other factors. The hospitals also were
judged based on a combination of opinions from pediatric specialists about the
hospitals they would recommend for the sickest children and data gathered in an
extensive survey of the hospitals themselves.

"Treating everything from the most common to the highly complex surgical needs
of children is an integral part of providing the highest quality of care and a
major criterion of these rankings," said Dr. Charles D. Fraser Jr.,
surgeon-in-chief of Texas Children's Hospital and professor of congenital heart
surgery at BCM. "Texas Children's Department of Surgery is a preeminent surgical
program nationally and these rankings signify the strength of both the
department and hospital overall."

The 2012-13 edition of Best Children's Hospitals is available online at
www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals and will be featured in U.S. News' annual
guidebook of Best Hospitals 2013 which will ship in mid August.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            July 18, 2012, Wednesday

WVU Hospitals is ranked state's best

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 299 words


West Virginia University Hospitals is the highest-ranked regional hospital in
the state, according to a report released Tuesday by U.S. News & World Report.

The national magazine recognized WVU Hospitals as high performing in 12 medical
specialties: cancer; cardiology and heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology;
ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology;
neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

"It's always great to be recognized, but this ranking is especially gratifying
because it's based on real numbers," Bruce McClymonds, president and CEO of WVU
Hospitals, said in a news release. "The rankings represent positive outcomes for
our patients and the extraordinary care provided here by our physicians, nurses
and other health professionals."

WVU Hospitals is a nonprofit hospital based in Morgantown. Nearly 30,000
patients visited WVU Hospitals' Ruby Memorial last year, according to U.S. News.

WVU Hospitals is planning to add a 10-story patient-care tower at Ruby Memorial.
The parent of Mon General Hospital said Monday it is dropping its challenge to a
$248 million expansion at WVU Hospitals after WVU Hospitals agreed to reduce the
planned number of beds in the patient tower from 139 to 114.

U.S. News & World Report's "Best Hospitals 2012-13" also recognized Charleston
Area Medical Center as the second-highest-ranked hospital in the state and St.
Mary's Medical Center in Huntington as the third.

The report, which includes rankings of more than 720 of the nation's nearly
5,000 hospitals, will be published in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2012-13
guidebook, which goes on sale in August. This year's best-hospitals list is the
first year the publication has ranked hospitals within most states, according to
a news release.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Charleston Newspapers

                              232 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Sentinel (Carlisle, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Report names best hospitals, areas of high performance

BYLINE: The Sentinel, Carlisle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 486 words


Aug. 08--The U.S. News & World Report Tuesday unveiled its list of best
hospitals across the country, as well as rankings in the state and areas of
"high performance."

The highest ranking hospital in the Midstate was Penn State Health Milton S.
Hershey Medical Center, which ranked as the fourth best hospital in the state.

The hospital also received "high performing" marks in six adult specialties:
cancer, geriatrics, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology and
urology.

Of its specialties, Penn State Health received national rankings for some of
them. Under adult specialties, the hospital ranked 35 nationally for
gastroenterology and 48 for orthopedics. Under children's specialties, Penn
State Children's Hospital ranked 39 for pediatric cardiology and heart surgery,
46 for pediatric orthopedics, 46 for neonatology and 50 for pediatric cancer.

The hospital was also listed as "high performing" in eight of the nine adult
procedures and conditions: abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve
surgery, COPD, colon cancer surgery, heart bypass surgery, heart failure, knee
replacement and lung cancer surgery.

"These rankings reflect years of collaboration to enhance quality, safety and
outcomes for our patients,'" said Dr. A. Craig Hillemeier, CEO of Penn State
Health. "Moving forward, we must continue to take steps to ensure that we do
right by every patient, every time."

While no other area hospitals were nationally ranked, they did show high
performance in certain specialties.

Considered jointly as PinnacleHealth Hospitals, the health system was ranked No.
12 in the state and was rated as high performing in the same eight adult
procedures as Penn State Health.

Both PinnacleHealth and Penn State Health were rated as "average" for hip
replacement procedures.

Geisinger Holy Spirit Hospital received high performance ratings in two adult
procedures: COPD and heart failure, with the rest of the conditions and
procedures settling in the average area.

Chambersburg Hospital received high performance ratings for COPD and heart
failure, but also received "below average" ratings for abdominal aortic aneurysm
repair, hip replacement and lung cancer surgery.

Most of the procedures and conditions at Carlisle Regional Medical Center were
rated as average, except for abdominal aortic aneurysm and repair and colon
cancer surgery, which were both rated by U.S. News & World Report as "below
average."

For the 2017-18 rankings, U.S. News evaluated more than 4,500 medical centers
nationwide. In the 16 specialty areas, 152 hospitals were ranked in at least one
specialty.

For more information on the Best Hospitals in Pennsylvania, complete with data
about each specialty and patient experience, go online at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/area/pa.

___ (c)2017 The Sentinel (Carlisle, Pa.) Visit The Sentinel (Carlisle, Pa.) at
www.cumberlink.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170808-JV-Report-names-best-hospitals
-areas-of-high-performance-0808-20170808

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JV


                          Copyright 2017 The Sentinel

                              233 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Utah: What the Best Hospitals Rankings Are -- and Aren't

LENGTH: 141  words

DATELINE: Salt Lake City


Illinois Hospital Association, The State of Utah has issued the following news
release:

What the Best Hospitals Rankings Are -- and Aren't
The new round of Best Hospitals 2013-14 rankings, published online July 16,
stirred up more than the usual intensity of the expected annual scrutiny. A July
25 opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal was especially sharp. Ezekiel
Emanuel, chairman of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the
University of Pennsylvania, questioned the validity of the rankings, and in a
follow-up commentary July 29 on MSNBC's Morning Joe he called the rankings
"pretty worthless." We obviously disagree. Here, then, are the major points
raised in the Wall Street Journal and echoed elsewhere, other frequently voiced
concerns, and our responses.

For further information please visit: http://www.ihatoday.org/

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                   L2 Edition

Suburban hospitals make prestigious list

BYLINE: By Robert McCoppin, Daily Herald Health Reporter
rmccoppin@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 408 words


Three suburban hospitals -- Edward in Naperville, Central DuPage in Winfield,
and Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood -- were among those joining five
Chicago institutions on this year's U.S. News and World Report list of the
nation's top hospitals.

Loyola placed 31st in heart care, 39th in geriatric care and 43rd in urology.

Central DuPage ranked 47th in orthopedics, and Edward made number 47 in treating
gastrointestinal disorders.

Ingalls Memorial Hospital in Harvey also made the list, ranking 38th in
neurology and neurosurgery.

In Chicago, three teaching hospitals scored high rankings in several categories.

The University of Chicago Medical Center was ranked 17th overall in the nation
and recognized in 11 specialties. Northwestern Memorial Hospital was cited in 10
specialties. Rush University Medical Center made the list in seven categories.

Children's Memorial Hospital was named in the top 50 in seven different
pediatric specialties. And the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago again ranked
first in the nation for rehabilitation facilities.

The rankings are based on reputation, mortality rate, staffing and services, and
are heavily weighted toward teaching hospitals, in the view of Dr. David Cooke,
vice president for quality and safety at Central DuPage.

By surveying doctors on where they would refer family members, some institutions
can ride on past reputation.

But CDH made the list in orthopedics primarily through its heavy caseload, its
broad range of service, and its low mortality rate of 0.39, almost 60 percent
less than what would typically be expected.

"What may cause us to stand apart," Cooke said, "is our surgeons have so much
experience, taking on cases other orthopedists would not do," such as elderly
patients with heart or lung conditions or second joint replacements.

For Loyola, the high rankings are a repeat performance.

Dr. David Wilber, director of cardiology, credited a commitment toward providing
new technology that makes procedures safer and simpler, such as a magnetically
guided heart catheter system.

At Edward Hospital, the gastrointestinal department has grown to perform about
10,000 procedures a year, including colonoscopies to screen for colon cancer and
endoscopies to diagnose disorders like esophageal reflux disease.

Kelly Leonard, nurse manager for Edward's endoscopy services, said an important
part of the department's success was getting more people screened before they
have a problem.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              235 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             June 19, 1994, Sunday

THE GEORGIA 100: The Best of Business Hallmark Healthcare name would disappear
in merger

BYLINE: David mcnaughtonatlanta/journal/constitution; reports; business;
ranking; georgia; lists

SECTION: BUSINESS; Section P; Page 20

LENGTH: 87 words


Hallmark Healthcare may have finished No. 23 in the Georgia 100 ranking, but
it's No. 1 with Houston-based Community Health Systems.

Last week the two hospital companies announced a deal in which Community Health
Systems would exchange common stock for the common and preferred shares of
Hallmark Healthcare. The company that would result from the merged firms will
keep the Community Health Systems name and be based in Houston.

On the day the deal was announced, Hallmark Healthcare stock jumped $ 6.75 to $
20.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941740080

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution

                              236 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday
                                  UNK Edition

Colorado's top-ranked hospital is CU's academic medical center

BYLINE: Electa Draper

SECTION: Z; Pg. 0Z

LENGTH: 293 words


University of Colorado Hospital is the state's best hospital, with 11 medical
specialties ranked among the best in the nation, according to U.S. News & World
Report, which released its 2015 16 hospital rankings Tuesday.

The nation's top ranked hospital is Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

The rankings are intended to help the 90,000 patients admitted each day to U.S.
hospitals make a good choice. The ranking is based on objective data, including
death rates and patient safety, but also includes surveys of physicians asked to
name the best facilities in their specialties.

UC Hospital, the academic medical center of University of Colorado Health, was
ranked second in the nation with partner National Jewish Health in pulmonology,
or lung specialties.

In Colorado, the top ranked hospitals are:

1. University of Colorado Hospital

2. Porter Adventist Hospital

3. Penrose St. Francis Health Services

4. Sky Ridge Medical Center

4. Poudre Valley Hospital

4. Memorial Hospital

7. Good Samaritan Medical Center

7. Denver Health Medical Center

7. Medical Center of the Rockies

10. Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center

Craig Hospital, though not ranked in the top 10 overall, was ranked seventh in
the nation for rehabilitation of injuries.

UC Hospital was highly ranked in treating kidney disorders, 12th; cancer, 15th;
orthopedics, 25th; and, neurology and neurosurgery, 26th. All five UCHealth
hospitals were listed among the top 10 in Colorado, by the magazine.

Nationwide, rounding out the top five hospitals are the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, Minn.; John Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore; UCLA Medical Center in Los
Angeles; and Cleveland Clinic.

Pediatric centers are ranked separately.

Electa Draper: 303 954 1276, edraper@denverpost.com or twitter.com/electadraper

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 27, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Axial Exchange: Sharp Memorial Hospital and Doctors Medical Center of Modesto
Earn Top Rankings in Independent California Patient Engagement Index

LENGTH: 508  words


New Delhi, June 27 -- Axial Exchange, Inc., a pioneer in using mobile apps to
deepen the patient's role in improving outcomes, today announced the results of
its California Patient Engagement Index (PEI), a groundbreaking index that ranks
U.S. hospitals based on an analysis of publicly available data in three
categories: personal health management, patient satisfaction and social media
engagement. In the California PEI, Sharp Memorial Hospital and Doctors Medical
Center of Modesto topped the list of 135 hospitals in the state. This is the
third regional PEI the company has issued; previous PEI's ranked top hospitals
in Florida and Texas.



Axial Exchange's methodology for ranking hospitals' patient engagement
performance is based on analyzing metrics that research has indicated lower
costs and improve clinical outcomes. For each state's PEI, Axial Exchange
evaluates provider organizations' personal health management strategies,
awarding maximum points to those organizations that not only offer electronic
access to patient health records, but also provide resources for ongoing disease
management support, including mobile, tablet and desktop tools. Axial Exchange
also ranks hospitals according to an annual Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
(CMS) patient satisfaction survey called the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Health Plans Survey (HCAHPS), a standardized instrument for measuring patients'
perspectives on hospital care and is also used to determine reimbursement levels
for Medicare patients. Lastly, Axial Exchange analyzes the extent to which
hospitals and health systems engage their patients via social networking
channels.

The highest possible ranking a hospital can receive in the Axial Exchange PEI is
a score of 100. Ranking number one, Sharp Memorial Hospital in San Diego,
received an overall score of 90. Lower ranking hospitals in the California PEI
included notable healthcare institutions like Olive View-UCLA Medical Center,
which received a score of 18, and Riverside County Regional Medical Center which
received a score of 13.

"Through our Patient Engagement Indices, we are starting to see more and more
provider organizations make a commitment to, and investment in, patient
engagement initiatives, demonstrating that healthcare organizations are really
starting to see the value of engagement programs-whether that be via enhanced
social media engagement, mobile health applications or patient education," said
Joanne Rohde, CEO of Axial Exchange. "Patient engagement is a real game changer
when it comes to successful health management, and when done right, will
ultimately lead to improve outcomes, better quality care, and reduced costs for
the entire healthcare ecosystem."

Future indices for other U.S. regions will debut in the coming months. Detailed
methodology of the Patient Engagement Index is published here. All California
hospitals were notified of their ranking, and provided with the published data
for consideration in their own initiatives toward Meaningful Use and heightened
reimbursement.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 8, 2013 Monday

Hazleton General rates first in state for value of care

BYLINE: Kent Jackson, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 658 words


April 08--Hazleton General Hospital ranks first in the state in a new measure
that the federal government uses to assess value in health care.

Through the Affordable Health Care Act, the federal government will increase or
decrease a small percentage of Medicare payments to hospitals based on the
ratings.

For the past few years, the Hospital and Healthsystem Association of
Pennsylvania used federal data and formulas to let hospitals know how they
compare under value-based purchasing.

"For Hazleton General Hospital, of 136 hospitals which we have data for, they
ranked No. 1," Martin Ciccocioppo, vice president of research for the hospital
association, said. "Out of the whole country --Hazleton General Hospital, in our
analysis, is 23 of 2,843."

This year, the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will allocate
$48 million among Pennsylvania hospitals based on the rankings.

James Edwards, chief executive officer at Hazleton General Hospital, said the
ranking means the hospital will receive an extra $300,000.

That's about one-quarter of 1 percent of the total revenues for the Greater
Hazleton Health Alliance, which operates the hospital.

Medicare, the federal health insurance plan for older Americans, paid $36.39
million to Hazleton General in 2011.

Hazleton General's high rank on the value-based payments list reflects efforts
taken at the hospital to improve quality of care.

This year's rankings are based on patient satisfaction surveys and what
Ciccocioppo called process measures, such as percentage of patients given
instruction sheets before they are discharged or the share of patients who
receive antibiotics before surgery.

Next year, the rankings will include mortality rates. By 2015, rankings also
will factor in data about hospital-acquired infections and total cost per
Medicare patient from three days before admission until 30 days after admission.
Previously, Ciccocioppo said, hospitals were not responsible for care given
outside the premises.

Edwards said Hazleton General already is planning to keep scores high as the
ratings incorporate more data in the next few years.

"The reason we're doing so well out of the gate is we're ahead of the curve. We
do understand the direction that medicine is taking. I think, rightly so, it
will be quality-driven," Edwards said. "We have a staff, we have physicians that
are very engaged in doing the best for our patients."

By another rating, the financial health of Hazleton General improved.

Two years ago, Moody's upgraded the hospital's bond rating to Baa3, which is
average, from the below-average rating of Ba2 issued in 2009.

Moody's said the outlook at the hospital is stable and said the hospital noted
four years of consistent increases in operating margin.

The hospital alliance earned more than $14 million in each of the two most
recent for which tax forms are available based on gross revenues of $110 million
in 2011 and $107 million the year before.

For 2012, the alliance said revenues of $114.3 million again exceeded expenses,
but Edwards didn't yet know the amount of profit when interviewed last month.

He said the improved bond rating allowed the hospital to save money by
refinancing debt.

The hospital alliance's long-term debt decreased to $21.5 million from $34.7
million between 2010 and 2011, according to the 2011 audit done by the
independent firm ParenteBeard in Wilkes-Barre.

When refinancing, Edwards said the hospital also allocated money to renovate the
hospital entrance, upgrade equipment and install a system for keeping patients'
records electronically.

Hazleton General can receive laboratory results electronically and can track lab
results and patient referrals between visits, according to two new categories
followed at medicare.gov.

kjackson@standardspeaker.com 570-455-3636

___ (c)2013 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130408-YC-Hazleton-General-rates-first-in-state-for-value-of-care-0408-2013040
8

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YC


                       Copyright 2013 The Citizens' Voice

                              239 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital in Nation's Top Five for Treatment of
Newborns and Children with Breathing Disorders

LENGTH: 654  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital at University
Hospitals Case Medical Center once again is ranked as one of the nation's top
children's hospitals, according to U.S.News & World Report's annual rankings of
pediatric hospitals, and for the second year in a row is ranked in all ten
children's specialties.

For the fifth consecutive year, UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital ranked
among the top five children's hospitals for the care of newborns in its neonatal
intensive care unit. The hospital also ranked in the top 10 for two other
specialties - Pulmonology (#5) and Orthopaedics (#10) and climbed in six areas,
with its Diabetes & Endocrinology and Cancer specialties jumping to number
eleven and twelve respectively.

"We are proud to once again be recognized as one of the nation's leading
children's hospitals," says Michael Konstan, MD, Chairman of the Department of
Pediatrics at UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital. "Rainbow has a rich
legacy in pediatrics and has been ranked as a top children's hospital on this
elite list for 22 years, since the inception of the U.S.News rankings. This
prestigious recognition demonstrates our abiding commitment to caring for the
children of Northeast Ohio and beyond."

UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital's rankings in all ten medical and
surgical children's specialties are:

* #12 in Cancer

* #41 in Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* #11 in Diabetes & Endocrinology

* #50 in Gastroenterology

* #5 in Neonatology

* #16 in Nephrology

* #25 in Neurology & Neurosurgery

* #10 in Orthopaedics

* #5 in Pulmonology

* #26 in Urology

In addition to the top ten rankings, UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital's
pediatric cancer ranking jumped from 22 to 12 this year. It comes after the
announcement of the Angie Fowler Adolescent & Young Adult Cancer Institute, made
possible by a $17 million gift by Char and Chuck Fowler and family last July in
memory of their daughter, Angie, who passed away from melanoma at age 14. The
largest individual donation in the hospital's history, the gift furthers its
national leadership in childhood, adolescent, and young adult cancers. It also
dovetails with innovative work ongoing in pediatric cancer research and
treatment, such as advances in sickle cell treatment. "This recognition
continues our momentum in pediatric cancer," says John Letterio, MD, Chief of
Pediatric Hematology and Oncology at UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital.
"But there is no greater reward than curing children of cancer, and giving them
the ability to survive and live happy, healthy lives."

A pediatric pulmonologist who has invested his career pursuing a cure for cystic
fibrosis, Dr. Konstan is particularly proud of the ascent to number five of the
Pediatric Pulmonology Division, which has ranked in the top ten since U.S.News
started ranking specialties. Under Dr. Konstan's leadership, the hospital's
Leroy W. Matthews Cystic Fibrosis Center is nationally recognized for its
research, new therapies and breakthroughs in the treatment of CF.

"We are very proud to be ranked so highly once again in neonatology," says
Jonathan Fanaroff, MD, JD, Co-Medical Director of the NICU at UH Rainbow. The
acknowledgement continues the recognition of UH Rainbow's work with the most
fragile newborns, from pioneering neonatology in the 1950s to opening the
Quentin & Elisabeth Alexander Neonatal Intensive Care Unit in 2009, the $26.2
million state-of-the-art NICU. "Rainbow has a rich history of excellence in
neonatology and we are always looking toward the future, and how we can continue
to enhance the care we provide to our babies."

Hospital specialties were ranked using a three-part combination of reputation,
outcomes and care-related measures, such as nursing care, advanced technology,
infection control and safety measures. A complete list of the children's
hospital rankings will be published online at www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             August 13, 2017 Sunday

BUSINESS AWARDS

SECTION: ; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 550 words


HEALTH CARE

Miami Valley Hospital ranks 4th

Miami Valley Hospital ranked fourth among Ohio's hospitals in the latest annual
rankings released recently by U.S. News & World Report, up four spots from last
year. The hospital achieved the highest ranking in not only Dayton, but
southwest Ohio.

HEALTH CARE

Good Samaritan up 4 spots in rankings

Good Samaritan Hospital ranked 18th in the state, up four spots from last year.

Among all hospitals nationwide, Miami Valley Hospital ranked 28th for its
pulmonology care, and 34th for nephrology care.

Both Miami Valley Hospital and Good Samaritan Hospital also ranked as
"high-performing" in several areas of care.

Miami Valley Hospital had 15 such designations for cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery;
geriatrics; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; urology; abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair; aortic valve surgery; heart bypass surgery; heart failure;
colon cancer surgery; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); knee
replacement; and lung cancer surgery.

Good Samaritan Hospital had four "high-performing" designations, including
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair; heart failure; colon cancer surgery; and COPD.

LAW

Partner earns spot on 'Hot List '

Erin Rhinehart, Partner at Faruki+, adds another impressive award to her
collection of accolades. Benchmark Litigation's "Under 40 Hot List" honors the
achievements of the nation's most accomplished legal partners of the age of
forty or younger.

The collection of young, up-and-coming attorneys was chosen through a process of
peer review and case examination that took place over many months. Rhinehart is
one of only five Ohio attorneys who made the cut.

Rhinehart leads Faruki's media and communications practice, which includes First
Amendment issues, online & traditional defamation, public records, trademark,
copyright, trade secrets, open courts, branding, advertising law, social media
and certain privacy issues. She also represents clients in a variety of state
and federal consumer and mass tort class action lawsuits.

TRANSPORTATION

Driver competes in championships

Andrew Tuck recently represented FedEx Ground and his employer, Addison
Transportation, in the National Truck Driving Championships (NTDC) in Orlando,
Fla. This annual championship celebrates those who exemplify safety and
excellence in the driving profession.

Tuck earned a spot to compete in the prestigious national competition by winning
at the Ohio truck driving championships in May. The American Trucking
Associations (ATA) sponsors the NTDC, which is designed to recognize industry
leadership in safety and to promote professionalism among truck drivers.

Tuck has driven over 325,000 accident free miles over the course of his 11 years
of driving.

This year's competition will mark his 5th appearance at the national level,
including a first-place finish in the Step Van category in 2015. Along with
qualifying for the national competition, Tuck's performance at the state
competition in May also qualified him to become a member of the elite FedEx Aces
team.

At the NTDC, CSPs for FedEx Ground will be among the nearly 450 participants
competing for national titles in nine different classes of vehicles, including
the overarching National Grand Champion title.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              241 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            August 12, 2017 Saturday

BUSINESS AWARDS

SECTION: ; Pg. SPB5

LENGTH: 550 words


HEALTH CARE

Miami Valley Hospital ranks 4th

Miami Valley Hospital ranked fourth among Ohio's hospitals in the latest annual
rankings released recently by U.S. News & World Report, up four spots from last
year. The hospital achieved the highest ranking in not only Dayton, but
southwest Ohio.

HEALTH CARE

Good Samaritan up 4 spots in rankings

Good Samaritan Hospital ranked 18th in the state, up four spots from last year.

Among all hospitals nationwide, Miami Valley Hospital ranked 28th for its
pulmonology care, and 34th for nephrology care.

Both Miami Valley Hospital and Good Samaritan Hospital also ranked as
"high-performing" in several areas of care.

Miami Valley Hospital had 15 such designations for cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery;
geriatrics; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; urology; abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair; aortic valve surgery; heart bypass surgery; heart failure;
colon cancer surgery; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); knee
replacement; and lung cancer surgery.

Good Samaritan Hospital had four "high-performing" designations, including
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair; heart failure; colon cancer surgery; and COPD.

LAW

Partner earns spot on 'Hot List '

Erin Rhinehart, Partner at Faruki+, adds another impressive award to her
collection of accolades. Benchmark Litigation's "Under 40 Hot List" honors the
achievements of the nation's most accomplished legal partners of the age of
forty or younger.

The collection of young, up-and-coming attorneys was chosen through a process of
peer review and case examination that took place over many months. Rhinehart is
one of only five Ohio attorneys who made the cut.

Rhinehart leads Faruki's media and communications practice, which includes First
Amendment issues, online & traditional defamation, public records, trademark,
copyright, trade secrets, open courts, branding, advertising law, social media
and certain privacy issues. She also represents clients in a variety of state
and federal consumer and mass tort class action lawsuits.

TRANSPORTATION

Driver competes in championships

Andrew Tuck recently represented FedEx Ground and his employer, Addison
Transportation, in the National Truck Driving Championships (NTDC) in Orlando,
Fla. This annual championship celebrates those who exemplify safety and
excellence in the driving profession.

Tuck earned a spot to compete in the prestigious national competition by winning
at the Ohio truck driving championships in May. The American Trucking
Associations (ATA) sponsors the NTDC, which is designed to recognize industry
leadership in safety and to promote professionalism among truck drivers.

Tuck has driven over 325,000 accident free miles over the course of his 11 years
of driving.

This year's competition will mark his 5th appearance at the national level,
including a first-place finish in the Step Van category in 2015. Along with
qualifying for the national competition, Tuck's performance at the state
competition in May also qualified him to become a member of the elite FedEx Aces
team.

At the NTDC, CSPs for FedEx Ground will be among the nearly 450 participants
competing for national titles in nine different classes of vehicles, including
the overarching National Grand Champion title.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              242 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

NCMC ranked in top 100 hospitals in nation

BYLINE: Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 836 words


Oct. 24--Healthgrades, essentially the consumer reports of health care, has
ranked North Colorado Medical Center's pulmonary, gastroenterology and critical
care programs as some of the best among America's 100 best hospitals, according
to a news release.

The findings are part of American Hospital Quality Outcomes 2013: Healthgrades
Report to the Nation, which evaluates the performance of roughly 4,500 hospitals
nationwide in 28 common conditions and procedures, the release stated.

The report ranks Colorado hospitals as high and average compared to other
hospitals throughout the country, though the public document doesn't name
hospitals specifically.

The NCMC rankings for critical care and gastrointestinal care are now the second
year both NCMC programs have been named among America's best, according to the
release.

Healthgrades recognitions for NCMC also include top 10 rankings for a variety of
heart and pulmonary services.

The rankings are based on patient outcomes from 2009-11.

Cardiac

--Ranked No. 6 in Colorado for Overall Cardiac Services in 2013

--Ranked No. 7 in Colorado for Cardiac Surgery in 2013

--Ranked No. 7 in Colorado for Cardiology Services in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Overall Cardiac Services for four
years in a row (2010-2013) (Ranked 6 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Cardiac Surgery for two years in a row
(2012-2013) (Ranked 7 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Cardiology Services for four years in
a row (2010-2013) (Ranked 7 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Coronary Bypass Surgery for two years in a row
(2012-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Heart Attack for three years in a row
(2011-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Heart Failure for eight years in a row
(2006-2013)

Neurosciences

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Stroke for six years in a row (2008-2013)

Pulmonary

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Pulmonary Care Excellence Award for five years
in a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Overall Pulmonary Services
for two years in a row (2012-2013)

--Ranked No. 1 in Colorado for Overall Pulmonary Services in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Overall Pulmonary Services for seven
years in a row (2007-2013) (Ranked 1 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Overall Pulmonary Services for five years in a row
(2009-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease for
seven years in a row (2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pneumonia for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

Gastrointestinal

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Gastrointestinal Care Excellence Award for four
years in a row (2010-2013)

--Recipient of the HealthGrades General Surgery Excellence Award for three years
in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Overall GI Services for three
years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for GI Medical Treatment for
three years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 percent in the Nation for General Surgery for three
years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for GI Services in 2013

--Ranked No. 3 in Colorado for General Surgery in 2013

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for GI Medical Treatment in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for GI Services for seven years in a row
(2007-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 in Colorado for General Surgery for three years in a
row (2011-2013) (Ranked 3 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for GI Medical Treatment for seven years
in a row (2007-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for GI Medical Treatment for two years in a row
(2012-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for GI Procedures and Surgeries for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of GI Bleed for six years in a row
(2008-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Bowel Obstruction for four years in a row
(2010-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pancreatitis in 2013

Critical Care

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Critical Care Excellence Award for five years in
a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Critical Care for five years
in a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for Critical Care in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 5 in Colorado for Critical Care for five years in a row
(2009-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Overall Critical Care for five years in a row
(2009-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Sepsis for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pulmonary Embolism for six years in a row
(2008-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Respiratory Failure for seven years in a
row (2007-2013)

Emergency Medicine

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Emergency Medicine Excellence Award for three
years in a row (2010-2012)

___ (c)2012 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121024-GY-NCMC-ranked-in-top-100-hospitals-in-nation-1024-20121024

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2012 Greeley Tribune

                              243 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday

NCMC ranked in top 100 hospitals in nation

BYLINE: Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 836 words


Oct. 23--Healthgrades, essentially the consumer reports of health care, has
ranked North Colorado Medical Center's pulmonary, gastroenterology and critical
care programs as some of the best among America's 100 best hospitals, according
to a news release.

The findings are part of American Hospital Quality Outcomes 2013: Healthgrades
Report to the Nation, which evaluates the performance of roughly 4,500 hospitals
nationwide in 28 common conditions and procedures, the release stated.

The report ranks Colorado hospitals as high and average compared to other
hospitals throughout the country, though the public document doesn't name
hospitals specifically.

The NCMC rankings for critical care and gastrointestinal care are now the second
year both NCMC programs have been named among America's best, according to the
release.

Healthgrades recognitions for NCMC also include top 10 rankings for a variety of
heart and pulmonary services.

The rankings are based on patient outcomes from 2009-11.

Cardiac

--Ranked No. 6 in Colorado for Overall Cardiac Services in 2013

--Ranked No. 7 in Colorado for Cardiac Surgery in 2013

--Ranked No. 7 in Colorado for Cardiology Services in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Overall Cardiac Services for four
years in a row (2010-2013) (Ranked 6 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Cardiac Surgery for two years in a row
(2012-2013) (Ranked 7 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Cardiology Services for four years in
a row (2010-2013) (Ranked 7 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Coronary Bypass Surgery for two years in a row
(2012-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Heart Attack for three years in a row
(2011-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Heart Failure for eight years in a row
(2006-2013)

Neurosciences

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Stroke for six years in a row (2008-2013)

Pulmonary

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Pulmonary Care Excellence Award for five years
in a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Overall Pulmonary Services
for two years in a row (2012-2013)

--Ranked No. 1 in Colorado for Overall Pulmonary Services in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Overall Pulmonary Services for seven
years in a row (2007-2013) (Ranked 1 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Overall Pulmonary Services for five years in a row
(2009-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease for
seven years in a row (2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pneumonia for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

Gastrointestinal

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Gastrointestinal Care Excellence Award for four
years in a row (2010-2013)

--Recipient of the HealthGrades General Surgery Excellence Award for three years
in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Overall GI Services for three
years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for GI Medical Treatment for
three years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 percent in the Nation for General Surgery for three
years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for GI Services in 2013

--Ranked No. 3 in Colorado for General Surgery in 2013

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for GI Medical Treatment in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for GI Services for seven years in a row
(2007-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 in Colorado for General Surgery for three years in a
row (2011-2013) (Ranked 3 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for GI Medical Treatment for seven years
in a row (2007-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for GI Medical Treatment for two years in a row
(2012-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for GI Procedures and Surgeries for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of GI Bleed for six years in a row
(2008-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Bowel Obstruction for four years in a row
(2010-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pancreatitis in 2013

Critical Care

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Critical Care Excellence Award for five years in
a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Critical Care for five years
in a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for Critical Care in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 5 in Colorado for Critical Care for five years in a row
(2009-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Overall Critical Care for five years in a row
(2009-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Sepsis for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pulmonary Embolism for six years in a row
(2008-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Respiratory Failure for seven years in a
row (2007-2013)

Emergency Medicine

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Emergency Medicine Excellence Award for three
years in a row (2010-2012)

___ (c)2012 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121023-GY-NCMC-ranked-in-top-100-hospitals-in-nation-1023-20121023

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2012 Greeley Tribune

                              244 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

WHERE KIDS ARE NO. 1 N.Y.-Presbyterian tops list for eighth year

BYLINE: BY HEIDI EVANS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words


They are among the best medical minds, hands and hearts in New York and the
nation: Doctors, surgeons and hospital staffs who specialize in treating
children with the most daunting medical conditions.

From brain surgery to open-heart surgery and cancer care, millions of children's
lives have been saved and enhanced by the care they have received at 10 New York
area children's hospitals.

No. 1 on the list for the eighth year in a row is New York-Presbyterian Morgan
Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital, according to the 2014-15 U.S. News & World
Report rankings released Tuesday.

Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital was ranked outstanding in nine of 10
medical specialties surveyed. Its two campuses also scored in the top 12
nationwide in neonatology, cardiology and heart surgery and
diabetes-endocrinology.

"Investing in children's care is very important to us," said New
York-Presbyterian CEO Dr. Steven Corwin. "If anybody in my family - my kids or
grandkids - were sick, I would have no compunction about having them treated at
this hospital, and I think New Yorkers should feel that way as well," he added.

Mount Sinai's Kravis Children's Hospital on the Upper East Side excelled in
seven of the 10 specialties - including diabetes and endocrinology, nephrology
and pulmonology.

"We are pleased with our rankings in seven specialties, and the recognition from
U.S. News that we received this year for our programs in neurology and
neurosurgery, and in neonatology - a division that oversees 18,000 births a
year," said Dr. Kenneth Davis, CEO of the Mount Sinai Health System. "Our entire
medical team, including physicians, nurses and social workers, strives to care
for patients with expertise and compassion."

Cohen Children's Medical Center in New Hyde Park, L.I., was nationally ranked in
five specialties, while the Children's Hospital at Montefiore in the Bronx
excelled in four specialties.

Ben Harder, managing editor and director of health care analysis for the survey,
said U.S. News continues to make refinements to its methodology, which can have
a positive or negative effect on a hospital's ranking.

In addition to looking at patient care and staffing and survival and
complication rates, surveyors added additional categories to measure a
hospital's performance this year.

For example, hospitals that did well at preventing infection, particularly in
the pediatric intensive care units, were given extra credit this year.

"Our rankings are designed to provide a guide or decision support for health
care consumers, especially families with very sick children," said Harder. "It's
for families and general pediatricians trying to figure out where best to send a
very sick patient. It gives families and general pediatricians a valuable
starting point for the best care."

In the 2014-15 rankings, 89 hospitals were ranked among the top 50 in at least
one of the 10 specialities. Ten hospitals with high scores in three or more
specialties were named to the national "Honor Roll" list.

The children's hospitals of Philadelphia, Boston and Cincinnati remained the top
three in the country.

hevans@-nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital is a
jewel in the city's medical crown. Above, its uptown campus. MARCUS SANTOS/DAILY
NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Daily News, L.P.

                              245 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            October 30, 2015 Friday
                                 Early Edition

Ottawa Hospital falls to seventh in ranking

BYLINE: Don Butler, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 396 words


It certainly sounds like good news: The Ottawa Hospital ranks seventh out of 600
hospitals in Canada in the latest version of a respected list of the country's
top research hospitals.

But as recently as the 2012 fiscal year, the hospital's two dynamic research
centres - the Ottawa Hospital Research Institute and the Ottawa Heart Institute
Research Corporation - had pushed it to fourth-best in the nation.

It slipped to fifth in 2013, and now sits seventh in the 2014 list, published
this week by Research Infosource Inc., Canada's top source of RD intelligence.

According to Research Infosource, The Ottawa Hospital spent $123.7 million on
research in 2013-14. But that was down by about $6 million from 2012-13 and by
$19 million from 2011-12.

Spending per researcher at the hospital's two institutes was $332,500, 13th-best
among the country's top-40 research hospitals and substantially less than the
hospital has spent in recent years. In the 2012 fiscal year, for example, the
hospital spent $507,400 on research for every researcher on staff.

The Ottawa Hospital spent 9.1 per cent of its total income on research in 2014,
a number bested by 17 other hospitals on the top-40 list.

By comparison, the Hospital for Sick Children spent more than one-quarter of its
income on research, and Toronto's University Health Networks, ranked the
country's top research hospital, spent 15.5 per cent.

The hospital says its decline in the rankings was due to the end of an unusually
large grant it received in 2011-12.

"We knew that grant had a big impact on our numbers," said Rob Hanlon, the
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute's chief operating officer.

Hanlon said the hospital expects its ranking to rise in future, thanks to some
substantial funding it has received recently.

In July, for example, the hospital's scientists received $28 million in new
grants from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research.

"We were close to double the national average in terms of the average success
rate of our scientists compared to their peers across Canada," Hanlon said.
"That alone is a really good indicator that we're on the right track."

The hospital's research spending rose by eight per cent in 2014-15, which could
boost it into the top five in next year's rankings, Hanlon said.

dbutler@ottawacitizen.com twitter.com/ButlerDon !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Ottawa Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday

Healthgrades names top hospitals in 2015 High-ranking hospitals all have high
levels of collaboration, date-driven practices

LENGTH: 137  words

DATELINE: Washington, DC


Fierce Healthcare has issued the following news release:

The top hospitals in America have in common a combination of collaboration,
evidence-based decisions and vision, according to the latest rankings released
by Healthgrades.

The annual list ranks both the top 50 hospitals in America--those scoring in the
top 1 percent of hospitals for wide-ranging clinical excellence for at least six
consecutive years--and the top 100 hospitals--those scoring in the top 2 percent
of hospitals for wide-ranging clinical excellence for at least three consecutive
years.

California leads all other states in the rankings, with 22 in the top 100 and
eight in the top 50, followed by New York, with nine in the top 100 and five in
the top 50.
[Webinar] The Power of the Consumer: Developing a defined contribution & private
exchange strategy

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 23, 2016 Thursday

Mayo recognized for children's center

BYLINE: Brett Boese, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


June 23--The Mayo Clinic Children's Center has again been ranked as one of the
top facilities in the country by U.S. News & World Report.

The Rochester-based facility was one of three Minnesota centers recognized in
the 2016-17 ranking of Best Children's Hospitals. The other two were the
University of Minnesota Masonic Children's Hospital and the Children's Hospitals
and Clinics of Minnesota, which are both located in Minneapolis.

U.S. News & World Report named Boston Children's Hospital as the best children's
hospital in the nation, thanks largely to being ranked in the top 5 percent in
all 10 specialties. The list was compiled after examining 178 campuses around
the country.

The 10th year of ranking children's hospitals is generally regarded as a
precursor to the more widely recognized list of best hospitals, which is
typically announced in late July or early August. Mayo Clinic was the top-rated
hospital in 2014, but dropped to No. 2 last year.

The Mayo Clinic Children's Center was recognized as one of the top facilities in
the Midwest thanks to its high performance in numerous specialties, where it
finished among the top 50 in eight of the 10 specialties. However, it was not
included in U.S. News & World Report's top 10 list of children's hospitals.

"We are honored to be recognized for the quality care provided to the children
and families at the Children's Center," says Dr. Randall Flick, medical director
of the Mayo Clinic Children's Center. "This success is a reflection of our staff
members, who strive to put the needs of the patients first every day, as well as
the application of cutting-edge interventions, such as the use of proton beam
therapy for childhood cancer and stem cell treatment for children with heart
disease."

It finished No. 18 in diabetes and endocrinology, No. 27 in cardiology and heart
surgery and No. 31 in cancer, while also being ranked among the top 50 in
orthopedics, pulmonology, urology, and gastroenterology and G.I. surgery.

According to Dr. Flick, the U.S. News & World Report's Best Children's Hospital
ranking is an important measure, but not the only measure of Mayo Clinic's
performance.

"Ranking in the U.S. News & World Report's survey demonstrates the broad-based
excellence and the effectiveness of the team-based approach that is the hallmark
of Mayo Clinic care."

___ (c)2016 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160623-RC-Mayo-recognized-for-children-s-center-0623-20160623

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2016 Post-Bulletin

                              248 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              May 8, 2014 Thursday

biz local

BYLINE: biztimes.biz

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 92 words


UnityPoint on top hospital list

UnityPoint Health-Finley Hospital was ranked as one of the 15 top ranking
hospitals by Consumer Reports patient safety rankings provided by Becker's
Hospital Review.

The rankings, for more than 2,500 hospitals, are based on a composite score
between one and 100 of five quality measures, using data from CMS and the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The measures include mortality,
admissions, overuse of imaging, healthcare-associated infections and
communication, according to a Medscape report on the rankings.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

Report: Six SG Valley, Whittier hospitals among best in Los Angeles metro area

BYLINE: By Tracy Garcia, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 590 words


Six San Gabriel Valley and Whittier-area hospitals have received top rankings in
this year's U.S. News & World Report's best hospitals survey.

The report, designed to help patients and their families find a top-performing
hospital in their health-insurance network, identified 622 of the top-performing
metro-area hospitals of nearly 5,000 nationwide.

Among the top 44 facilities in the Los Angeles area, were:

No. 6, City of Hope in Duarte;

No. 10, Huntington Hospital in Pasadena;

No. 14, Garfield Medical Center in Monterey Park;

No. 18, Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier;

No. 36 (tie), Methodist Hospital of Southern California in Arcadia; and

Nov. 36 (tie), San Gabriel Valley Medical Center in San Gabriel.

In order to make the metro-area rankings, officials said a hospital had to score
in the top 25 percent among its peers in at least one of 16 medical specialties
such as cancer and kidney disorders to orthopedics and urology.

For the 440-bed PIH in Whittier, the highest marks came in the specialties of
diabetes and endocrinology; kidney disorders; neurology and neurosurgery;
orthopedics; and pulmonology.

Included in this consideration was PIH's Diabetes Education Center, which offers
basic and advanced information on treating diabetes and is open to the entire
community.

PIH's patient satisfaction rate was reported at 80 percent, compared to a
statewide average rate of 67 percent and 68 percent nationwide.

"I just think it's nice that we were recognized for all the work that's been
going on for many years here," said James R. West, PIH president and chief
executive officer.

"The physicians and medical staff deserve the credit because they do all the
work," West said. "At PIH, we are focused on unremitting innovation and
dedication to providing a superior health-care experience for our patients."

Study officials said the 541-bed Huntington Hospital in Pasadena performed
nearly at the level of nationally ranked U.S. News Best Hospitals in eight adult
specialties: diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology; geriatrics; kidney
disorders; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

It also scored high in patient safety, study officials said, which shows
commitment to reducing accidents and medical mistakes.

"It was great news to hear that Huntington Memorial Hospital was rated among the
top 10 hospitals in the greater Los Angeles area," said President and CEO
Stephen A. Ralph.

"It's wonderful recognition for our medical staff, nurses and patient care
providers."

Out of the 4,852 facilities analyzed for the 2010-11 Best Hospitals rankings,
only 152 were ranked in any of the 16 specialties - and the 185-bed City of Hope
cancer facility in Duarte was one of them, study officials said.

"We're very pleased to be the highest-ranked hospital in the San Gabriel
Valley," said Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Virginia
Opipare. "We're the second-highest ranking cancer center in Los Angeles, and
sixth-highest in California that appeared on the national list."

City of Hope's cancer and urology specialties were nationally ranked, and it
also received high-performing marks in ear, nose and throat; gynecology; and
kidney disorders.

"We're particularly pleased about our cancer rating because that's very
important to us," Opipare said. "And we feel very honored to be able to serve
the patients in this region in these high-specialty areas."

Full metro-area rankings and details can be viewed at www.usnews.com/best-
hospitals

tracy.garcia@sgvn.com

562-698-0955, ext. 3051

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Christian Gastelum, right, and Diabetes Center Coordinator Danielle
Halewijn, center, talk with diabetic patient Isaac Munoz, of Hacienda Heights,
at Prebyterian Intercommunity Hospital's Ernest D. Wells Medical Office building
in Whittier on Thursday March 31, 2011. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital has
been named one of the 44 Best Hospitals in Los Angeles in U.S. News & World
Report's first-ever Best Hospitals metro area rankings.(SGVN/Staff Photo by
Keith Durflinger)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bakersfield Californian

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Bakersfield Memorial earns top 5% hospital ranking

BYLINE: John Cox, The Bakersfield Californian

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 286 words


May 4--Bakersfield Memorial announced Monday that it landed in the top 5 percent
of U.S. hospitals in an annual study of patient safety.

The ranking by HealthGrades, a Colorado company that provides online information
about health-care organizations, is based on a review of nearly 5,000 hospitals'
medical outcomes data from 2006, 2007 and 2008. It looked at 15 kinds of safety
indicators, from bed sores to post-operative pulmonary embolisms.

Memorial was the only hospital in Kern County, and one of only 15 in California,
to make this year's list and win a 2010 HealthGrades Patient Safety Excellence
Award.

"Everything we're doing has started to pay off," Memorial President and CEO Jon
Van Boening told a crowd of cheering hospital employees Monday morning.

Also Monday, the hospital unveiled a two-year advertising campaign set to kick
off later this month on television, radio, magazines and billboards. The ads
tell consumers, "It's OK. We're Always Thinking About You."

The hospital's vice president of business development, Gary Frazier, said the
message reflects an understanding that, more than anything else, patients "care
about coming out of the hospital better." He added that it was only by
coincidence that Memorial received the award as it was planning an advertising
campaign.

To see more of The Bakersfield Californian, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.bakersfield.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Bakersfield Californian
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100504-BK-Bakersfield-Memorial-earns-top-5-hospital-ranking-0504

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BK


                   Copyright 2010 The Bakersfield Californian

                              251 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 4, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Introduces Hospital Data Insights Platform

LENGTH: 258  words


New Delhi, Nov. 4 -- U.S. News & World Report, publisher of Best Hospitals and
Best Children's Hospitals, today unveiled U.S. News Hospital Data Insights, a
premium platform designed for hospital executives and administrators. The new
web-based analytics platform provides instant access to the U.S. News archived
rankings and data on more than 3,000 hospitals in the United States.



Unlike the Best Hospitals rankings, which are designed to help consumers seeking
a high level of care, U.S. News Hospital Data Insights was developed
specifically for administrators. The new interactive dashboard allows hospital
executives to view proprietary rankings and data at a strategic level - over
many years and in relation to their peers. The platform contains data spanning
over 15 years of the Best Hospitals rankings and provides administrators access
to more than 10 million data points, many of which have never been publicly
available. Hospital administrators can visualize the data in six unique views
and can export reports for use in strategic planning, forecasting and
competitive analysis.

"U.S. News is known for collecting data on a range of industries and providing
the best information and tools available to help consumers make important life
decisions," said Brian Kelly, editor and chief content officer of U.S. News. "We
have often been asked to compile it all in one place. Now, we are offering an
advanced tool that allows hospital administrators to view, interpret and analyze
the unique information we've been gathering for over 15 years."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday

Healthgrades names top hospitals in 2015 High-ranking hospitals all have high
levels of collaboration, date-driven practices

LENGTH: 137  words

DATELINE: Washington, DC


Fierce Healthcare has issued the following news release:

The top hospitals in America have in common a combination of collaboration,
evidence-based decisions and vision, according to the latest rankings released
by Healthgrades.

The annual list ranks both the top 50 hospitals in America--those scoring in the
top 1 percent of hospitals for wide-ranging clinical excellence for at least six
consecutive years--and the top 100 hospitals--those scoring in the top 2 percent
of hospitals for wide-ranging clinical excellence for at least three consecutive
years.

California leads all other states in the rankings, with 22 in the top 100 and
eight in the top 50, followed by New York, with nine in the top 100 and five in
the top 50.
[Webinar] The Power of the Consumer: Developing a defined contribution & private
exchange strategy

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Niagara Gazette (Niagara Falls, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 6, 2008 Sunday

OPINION: The survey says: We're among the best

BYLINE: Dick Lucinski, Niagara Gazette, Niagara Falls, N.Y.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 583 words


Jul. 6--NIAGARA FALLS -- Let's shout it from the rooftops: We're No. 12! Or,
we're No. 73!

Those were the national rankings of the two hospitals in the Niagara Falls area
when it comes to bang for the buck. We're talking about the 2008 Hospital Value
Index. It's a rating of hospitals across America that lists the best value for
the money in health care.

According to the private firm Data Advantage, LLC, Niagara Falls Memorial
Medical Center is rated first in the state and 12th in the nation when it comes
to providing high-quality, affordable health care. The survey rated 1,500
hospitals in the country's 100 largest regions.

Stop and think of that: 12th out of 1,500. That's in the top 1 percent. In
addition, Memorial was listed as a Top 100 Best Value hospital, a Top 100 Best
Kept Secret hospital and a Best in Value hospital.

And let's not forget Mount St. Mary's Hospital in Lewiston. It made the Hot 100
charts as well, coming in at No. 73 on the Hospital Value Index. In fact, health
care facilities across the Niagara Falls-Buffalo region littered the Top 100,
bringing our area in as having the best value in health care of any region in
the nation.

The folks who work at and operate our hospitals are justifiably proud.

"It's really a tribute to the entire hospital team -- all 1,200 employees and
medical staff," said CEO Joseph Ruffolo of Niagara Falls Memorial Medical
Center. The index ranked the hospitals on four main criteria: quality of care,
efficiency of care and affordability, patient experience and reputation as
measured by local public perception. For both medical facilities to come out as
high as they did is, as Ruffolo put it, a tribute to all who dedicate themselves
to the care of the ill in our community.

Ruffolo says the ranking will be a big help in recruiting top-flight physicians
and other medical personnel to the region. "I think it's the old cliche that the
best attracts the best," he said.

Lists and rankings like these, of course, have their detractors. They say that
it all depends on what you measure; that the criteria used can skew the results.
Change them a little and it could knock our hospitals down to the middle of the
pack. And standards used in compiling this list are pretty subjective, relying
on surveys and opinion.

But those who criticize these types of lists are usually those who don't do well
on them. The best example locally is the annual Business First ranking of the
area's public schools. Officials of the districts that grace the top of the list
are all smiles. Those at or near the bottom? The survey is flawed and they don't
pay much attention to the rankings anyway.

But this is different. Even if the survey isn't perfect; even if it has some
flaws; 12th or 73rd out of 1,500 is so high on the list that even if the area
hospitals were to be knocked down a bit, it would still leave them among the top
values in health care in the nation.

That's something about which all of Niagara can be proud.

Dick Lucinski is the managing editor of the Niagara Gazette. His columns appear
on Wednesday and Sunday.

To see more of the Niagara Gazette or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.niagara-gazette.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, Niagara Gazette, Niagara
Falls, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080706-NF-OPINION-The-survey-says-We-re-among-the-best-0706

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NF


                                 Copyright 2008

                              254 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                          September 6, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Arnprior one of three safest towns for hospital patients: report

BYLINE: Joanne Laucius, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 269  words


Arnprior is one of the three safest municipalities in Ontario to be a hospital
patient, says the Fraser Institute's new Ontario hospital report card.

Arnprior ranked in the top three based on the "hospital mortality index," which
looked at communities in terms of hospital deaths in nine areas, such as
pneumonia and acute stroke, with the figures adjusted for factors such as the
patients' age and sex.

The municipal rankings, one of hundreds of indicators in the report, are based
the home postal codes of patients.

They indicate the success of patients' treatment at their local hospitals and at
the larger hospitals that handle more complex cases, said Mark Mullins,
co-author of the report and executive director of the Fraser Institute. Two
other small towns, Maple and Stratford, rounded out the top three.

In the hospital rankings -- as opposed to the community rankings -- the Ottawa
Hospital got consistently good marks in the mortality index between 1997 and
2005, placing seventh overall in the province, said Mr. Mullins.

In all, the report card assessed 50 measures of patient safety and quality of
care for Ontario's 136 acute care hospitals and 138 municipalities using
methodology currently used in a dozen U.S. states and data collected by the
Canadian Institute for Health Information.

However, only 43 Ontario hospitals agreed to be identified by name on the report
card. The others are reported only by number.

The first and second top-ranked hospitals in the report and the 10 bottom-ranked
hospitals were among the "anonymous' hospitals.

To see the report in its entirety, visit www.fraserinstitute.ca

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Mount Airy News (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday

Northern Hospital honored by rankings

BYLINE: The Mount Airy News, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 804 words


Aug. 28--Northern Hospital was recently recognized by several organizations that
rank rural and community hospitals in the nation.

Northern was named one of iVantage Health Analytics' Top 100 Rural & Community
Hospitals in the United States, as defined by the iVantage's Hospital Strength
index.

"The index is the industry's most comprehensive rating of rural and critical
access hospitals," the local hospital said in a statement announcing the
recognition. "The results recognize that the Top 100 Rural & Community Hospitals
play a key role in providing a safety net to communities across America --
measuring them across more than 70 different performance metrics, including
quality, outcomes, patient perspective, affordability, population risk and
efficiency."

The list of the Top 100 Rural & Community Hospitals and more information about
the study can be found at www.iVantageINDEX.com.

"Rural healthcare encompasses more than 60 million Americans and the facilities
which comprise our Top 100 Rural & Community Hospitals play a vital role in
ensuring the long-term sustainability of the rural health safety net," said
Michael Topchik, senior vice president of iVantage Health Analytics. "Our data
analysis shows that this group of top performers exhibits a focused concern for
their community benefits and needs, regardless of scale, reimbursement and
people's ability to pay.

Becker's Hospital Review

Northern Hospital also recently landed on Becker's Hospital Review 100 Great
Community Hospitals for 2016.

"Becker's is the leading hospital magazine for hospital business news and
analysis for hospital and health system executives," the hospital statement
said. "Becker's defines a 'community hospital' as one with fewer than 550 beds
that have minimal teaching programs."

A release from Becker's states, "The hospitals on this list are not far from
major metro areas, while others serve more rural communities. Regardless of
their location, or their independence or affiliation with a major system, these
hospitals are a vital part of their respective communities. The origins of
[Northern] can be traced back to the 1950s. [The hospital] has since blossomed
into a high-tech facility staffed by board-certified and fellowship-trained
clinical specialists."

The Becker's editorial team selected hospitals for inclusion based on rankings
and awards from organizations including iVantage Health Analytics, Truven Health
Analytics, Healthgrades, CareChex, the American Nurses Credentialing Center and
the Leapfrog Group. Included organizations have earned recognition from one or
more of these organizations. The list of the 100 Great Community Hospitals and
more information can be found at www.beckershospitalreview.com.

Becker's Hospital Review surveyed approximately 3,300 hundred hospitals for its
rankings.

Hospital earns an A

While landing among the top 100 on those two lists Northern Hospital of Surry
County earned its fourth consecutive grade A by the independent national patient
safety watchdog The Leapfrog Group. The Hospital Safety Scores, which assign A,
B, C, D and F letter grades to hospitals nationwide, was announced today by The
Leapfrog Group.

"Northern Hospital is one of 798 hospitals to receive an A, ranking among the
safest hospitals in the United States," the hospital said.

"We are honored to be recognized by so many national organizations for the great
care provided at Northern Hospital but none more impressive than being awarded
one of the top 100 hospitals by Becker's Hospital review," said Ned Hill,
president and CEO at Northern Hospital. "There were 3,300 hospitals across the
country that were compared side by side and Northern ranked in the top 100. We
are also very proud to be the only hospital in the State of North Carolina to be
ranked in the top 100 hospitals by both Becker's Hospital review and iVantage.
It is our pleasure to serve our friends and families and continue to provide
industry leading care right here in Mount Airy."

In the past 12 months, Northern Hospital has received several other honors in
the state and nationwide, including:

--Recipient of the 2016 Healthgrades Patient Safety Excellence Award;

--Recipient of the 2016 Healthgrades America's 100 Best Hospitals for Pulmonary
Care Award;

--Hospital Safety Scores -- Northern Hospital has received consecutive "A"
grades in 2014, 2015, 2016

--Cleverley & Associates, Community Value Five-Star Award for 2015 and 2016;

--Northern Hospital of Surry County was named in the 20 percent of all hospitals
within their group and was designated as Community Value Five-Star Hospital by
the Cleverley + Associates Community Value Index Leadership Award for 2016.

___ (c)2016 The Mount Airy News (Mount Airy, N.C.) Visit The Mount Airy News
(Mount Airy, N.C.) at www.mtairynews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160828-NI-Northern-Hospital-honored-by-rankings-0828-20160828

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NI


                       Copyright 2016 The Mount Airy News

                              256 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 6, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Hospitals offering best specialty care

BYLINE: Leslie Miller

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 364 words


If you're diagnosed with a serious illness, where do you go for state-of-the-art
care?

A new ranking of the USA's top major hospitals, out this week, makes answering
that question a little easier.

For AIDS, consider San Francisco General; for cancer, Memorial Sloan-Kettering.
For cardiology, Mayo Clinic; in geriatrics, UCLA Medical Center.

"We thought there was a pressing need for hospitals to be held up to consumer
standards like any other institution," says Avery Comarow of U.S. News & World
Report, which has produced best-hospitals lists since 1990.

The 1993 listings, for 16 specialties, represent the top 3% of the nation's
1,488 major teaching and research hospitals.

This year, for the first time, rankings for 12 of the 16 specialties are based
not just on surveys of physicians, but on measurements of objective criteria by
the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago. These include
mortality figures, technology, discharge planning and ratio of doctors and
nurses to beds.

Listings, in the July 12 issue, name 111 hospitals in 29 states and Washington,
D.C.

In each of 12 specialties - AIDS, cancer, cardiology, endocrinology,
gastroenterology, geriatrics, gynecology, neurology, orthopedics,
otolaryngology, rheumatology and urology - more than 40 hospitals are ranked;
scores are based a third on reputation with physicians, a third on mortality
rates and a third on measures that vary with each specialty.

For the other four specialties - ophthalmology, pediatrics, psychiatry and
rehabilitation - mortality figures are not kept, so rankings are based on
reputation as rated by the 2,400 physicians surveyed.

Among the top facilities

These hospitals are among the top 10 in at least six of the 16 specialties in
U.S. News & World Report's 1993 rankings:

- Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, 15 specialties.

- Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn., 13.

- UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles, 12.

- Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 11.

- Duke University Medical Center, Durham, N.C., and Cleveland Clinic, both 8.

- University of California, San Francisco Medical Center, 7. Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, 6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              257 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 9, 2016 Tuesday

Virginia: VCU Medical Center ranked No. 1 hospital in the Richmond metro area
and among the best in the state

LENGTH: 414  words

DATELINE: New York



 Richmond: Virginia Commonwealth University has issued the following news
release:



 VCU Medical Center has been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as the No. 1
hospital in the Richmond metro area for 2016-17 and was ranked No. 2 in
Virginia. VCU Medical Center also ranks in the top 50 in the country for
orthopedics at No. 36 and is tied at No. 46 for nephrology.





 "We're honored to be named among the best hospitals in the country," said
Marsha Rappley, M.D., vice president of VCU health sciences and CEO of the VCU
Health System. "This recognition is only possible because of the extraordinary
work, compassion and devotion our entire team puts forth each and every day. I
am very proud of our entire team that works tirelessly to provide exceptional
care to all we serve."



 U.S. News evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals nationwide. For 2016-17, 153
hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628 received a
high-performing rating in one or more specialties, procedures or conditions. In
rankings by state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals that were
high-performing across multiple areas of care. In addition to the best hospital
ranking, VCU Medical Center is considered high-performing in five areas,
including cancer, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, neurology and
neurosurgery, and urology.



 "As an academic medical center and Central Virginia's only Level I trauma
center, we are committed to providing the highest level of safe, quality care,"
said John Duval, vice president for clinical services and CEO of VCU Health
System hospitals and clinics. "This prestigious ranking represents the countless
advances in quality and safety and the uncompromising dedication to excellence
in service, education and research by the incredible team of physicians, nurses
and staff. Congratulations on a recognition well-deserved."



 The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in its 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates and adequacy of nurse staffing.



 Best Hospitals was produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a leading
research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Virginia: VCU Medical Center ranked No. 1 hospital in the Richmond metro area
and among the best in the state

LENGTH: 414  words

DATELINE: New York



 Richmond: Virginia Commonwealth University has issued the following news
release:



 VCU Medical Center has been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as the No. 1
hospital in the Richmond metro area for 2016-17 and was ranked No. 2 in
Virginia. VCU Medical Center also ranks in the top 50 in the country for
orthopedics at No. 36 and is tied at No. 46 for nephrology.





 "We're honored to be named among the best hospitals in the country," said
Marsha Rappley, M.D., vice president of VCU health sciences and CEO of the VCU
Health System. "This recognition is only possible because of the extraordinary
work, compassion and devotion our entire team puts forth each and every day. I
am very proud of our entire team that works tirelessly to provide exceptional
care to all we serve."



 U.S. News evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals nationwide. For 2016-17, 153
hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628 received a
high-performing rating in one or more specialties, procedures or conditions. In
rankings by state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals that were
high-performing across multiple areas of care. In addition to the best hospital
ranking, VCU Medical Center is considered high-performing in five areas,
including cancer, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, neurology and
neurosurgery, and urology.



 "As an academic medical center and Central Virginia's only Level I trauma
center, we are committed to providing the highest level of safe, quality care,"
said John Duval, vice president for clinical services and CEO of VCU Health
System hospitals and clinics. "This prestigious ranking represents the countless
advances in quality and safety and the uncompromising dedication to excellence
in service, education and research by the incredible team of physicians, nurses
and staff. Congratulations on a recognition well-deserved."



 The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in its 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates and adequacy of nurse staffing.



 Best Hospitals was produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a leading
research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

Virginia: VCU Medical Center ranked No. 1 hospital in the Richmond metro area
and among the best in the state

LENGTH: 414  words

DATELINE: New York



 Richmond: Virginia Commonwealth University has issued the following news
release:



 VCU Medical Center has been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as the No. 1
hospital in the Richmond metro area for 2016-17 and was ranked No. 2 in
Virginia. VCU Medical Center also ranks in the top 50 in the country for
orthopedics at No. 36 and is tied at No. 46 for nephrology.





 "We're honored to be named among the best hospitals in the country," said
Marsha Rappley, M.D., vice president of VCU health sciences and CEO of the VCU
Health System. "This recognition is only possible because of the extraordinary
work, compassion and devotion our entire team puts forth each and every day. I
am very proud of our entire team that works tirelessly to provide exceptional
care to all we serve."



 U.S. News evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals nationwide. For 2016-17, 153
hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628 received a
high-performing rating in one or more specialties, procedures or conditions. In
rankings by state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals that were
high-performing across multiple areas of care. In addition to the best hospital
ranking, VCU Medical Center is considered high-performing in five areas,
including cancer, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, neurology and
neurosurgery, and urology.



 "As an academic medical center and Central Virginia's only Level I trauma
center, we are committed to providing the highest level of safe, quality care,"
said John Duval, vice president for clinical services and CEO of VCU Health
System hospitals and clinics. "This prestigious ranking represents the countless
advances in quality and safety and the uncompromising dedication to excellence
in service, education and research by the incredible team of physicians, nurses
and staff. Congratulations on a recognition well-deserved."



 The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in its 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates and adequacy of nurse staffing.



 Best Hospitals was produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a leading
research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

Sarasota hospital named among top 50 in country

BYLINE: By DAVID GULLIVER david.gulliver@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


Sarasota Memorial Hospital has a big fan almost 2,000 miles away.

HealthGrades, a Colorado firm that rates health care services, named Sarasota
Memorial one of the country's top 50 hospitals for the second straight year.

Monday's announcement made it three times in less than a month that the firm
lauded the hospital.

On Jan. 31, HealthGrades released its sixth annual Hospital Quality and Clinical
Excellence study.

It analyzed patient data for almost 5,000 hospitals nationwide, with Sarasota
Memorial among the 269 making the cut.

A few days later, in a promotion for the "Top 50" rankings on the Forbes
magazine Web site, it listed Sarasota Memorial among the nation's safest
hospitals.

But Monday's announcement topped both.

"The HealthGrades recognition, like other quality awards we have received,
highlights important clinical outcomes that reflect our commitment to providing
a safe environment of care for our patients," said Judy Milne, executive
director for quality and patient safety, in a statement.

HealthGrades charges hospitals for using its rankings in marketing efforts.
Because Sarasota Memorial does not pay the licensing fee, the hospital limits
its discussion of the results.

But the HealthGrades report, available on the company's Web site, places the
hospital in good company.

It is one of nine Florida hospitals making the list, which included household
names such as Cleveland Clinic and Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles.

But the list also passes over some other respected names, like Baltimore's Johns
Hopkins Hospital, which topped the better-known annual hospital rankings in U.S.
News and World Report magazine in July.

For all its hospital studies, HealthGrades looked at federal data on how
Medicare patients fared at almost 5,000 hospitals nationally from 1999 through
2006.

Health researchers say Medicare data analysis applies to patients of all ages.

The study examined patients' mortality and complication rates in 27 procedures
or diagnoses, such as cardiac surgery, pneumonia and hip replacement.

The top 50 hospitals were the best of the 269 in the larger Clinical Excellence
study.

HealthGrades has issued Top 50 lists for just two years -- compared with the
17-year run of similar rankings in U.S News and World Report.

Unlike the magazine, HealthGrades does not rank hospitals within the top group.

Three Charlotte County hospitals also made the larger Clinical Excellence list:
Port Charlotte's Fawcett Memorial Hospital and Peace River Regional Medical
Center, and Punta Gorda's Charlotte Regional Medical Center.

In all, 40 Florida hospitals were among the 269 listed. That made Florida the
fourth-best state for hospital quality, behind only Minnesota, South Dakota and
Ohio.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                   D1 Edition

Central DuPage, Edward make prestigious hospital list

BYLINE: By Robert McCoppin, Daily Herald Health Reporter
rmccoppin@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 430 words


Three suburban hospitals -- Edward in Naperville, Central DuPage in Winfield,
and Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood -- were among those joining five
Chicago institutions on this year's U.S. News and World Report list of the
nation's top hospitals.

Loyola placed 31st in heart care, 39th in geriatric care and 43rd in urology.

Central DuPage ranked 47th in orthopedics, and Edward made number 47 in treating
gastrointestinal disorders.

Ingalls Memorial Hospital in Harvey also made the list, ranking 38th in
neurology and neurosurgery.

In Chicago, three teaching hospitals scored high rankings in several categories.

The University of Chicago Medical Center was ranked 17th overall in the nation
and recognized in 11 specialties, including sixth in gastrointestinal disorders.
Northwestern Memorial Hospital was cited in 10 specialties, including neurology,
rheumatology and geriatric care. Rush University Medical Center made the list in
seven categories, including 10th in orthopedics.

Children's Memorial Hospital was named in the top 50 in seven different
pediatric specialties. And the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago again ranked
first in the nation for rehabilitation facilities.

The rankings are based on reputation, mortality rate, staffing and services, and
are heavily weighted toward teaching hospitals, in the view of Dr. David Cooke,
vice president for quality and safety at Central DuPage.

By surveying doctors on where they would refer family members, some institutions
can ride on past reputation.

But CDH made the list in orthopedics primarily through its heavy caseload, its
broad range of service, and its low mortality rate of 0.39, almost 60 percent
less than what would typically be expected.

"What may cause us to stand apart," Cooke said, "is our surgeons have so much
experience, taking on cases other orthopedists would not do," such as elderly
patients with heart or lung conditions or second joint replacements.

For Loyola, the high rankings are a repeat performance.

Dr. David Wilber, director of cardiology, credited a commitment toward providing
new technology that makes procedures safer and simpler, such as a magnetically
guided heart catheter system.

At Edward Hospital, the gastrointestinal department has grown to perform about
10,000 procedures a year, including colonoscopies to screen for colon cancer and
endoscopies to diagnose disorders like esophageal reflux disease.

Kelly Leonard, nurse manager for Edward's endoscopy services, said an important
part of the department's success was getting more people screened before they
have a problem.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              262 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

HEALTHY TALLY U.S. News & World Report gives high ranking to area children's
hospitals

BYLINE: BY REUVEN BLAU NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 754 words


NINE NEW YORK-area hospitals that focus on caring for children battling major
health issues are feeling pretty darn good these days.

Those hospitals and one in upstate Rochester have just been ranked among the top
50 in the nation in at least one medical specialty, according to U.S. News &
World Report's annual tally.

Leading the way was New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's
Hospital, which landed in the top rankings in all 10 specialties, the findings
released Tuesday show.

It was among the best in the country in diabetes and endocrinology;
gastroenterology and GI surgery, and cardiology and heart surgery, the report
found.

Affiliated with Columbia and Cornell universities, the hospital has consistently
landed in the top rankings since the survey was launched 11 years ago.

Also in the New York area, the Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical
Center in New Hyde Park, L.I., made the chart in nine categories. The
state-of-the-art hospital ranked ninth in the country in urology, 19th in
neonatology, and 20th in cancer treatment, based on the survey.

The Children's Hospital at Montefiore was ranked in seven areas, including 23rd
in orthopedics, 24th in nephrology, 30th in gastroenterology and GI surgery, and
37th in cancer treatment.

Mount Sinai Kravis Children's Hospital was lauded with rankings in six medical
specialty fields, including diabetes and endocrinology, 16th; gastroenterology
and GI surgery, 23rd, and neurology and neurosurgery, 27th.

The Best Hospital rankings are largely based on a lengthy survey with 1,800
questions and data points. The survey is mailed out to 200 children's hospitals
nationwide. The questions cover everything from patient volume, -risk-adjusted
survival rates and adequacy of nurse staffing. "We try to make the best use of
that information to provide patients and their families about where to get the
best care for their kids," said Ben Harder, who spearheads the project for U.S.
News & World Report.

Each year, U.S. News takes a new look at the approaches it takes to rank
hospitals. As a result, this is the first year the survey results were based on
a new metric that measures the outcome of heart surgeries at different
hospitals. The Society of Thoracic Surgeons developed the new measure.

"Surgeons and other doctors have told us that's a very important measure,"
Harder said.

U.S. News also publicly identified the 126 medical advisers who help shape the
survey questions before they are sent to hospital officials.

"We feel transparency is really important," Harder said, noting publicizing the
names will safeguard any possible questions of preferential treatment to
hospitals tied to those doctors.

The advisers work on the survey voluntarily and are not paid.

Two New York City hospitals grabbed top spots specifically for their
cancer-treatment units. They are the Claire Tow Pediatric Pavilion at Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (15) and the Children's Hospital at Montefiore
(37).

The other city and area hospitals taking top spots are Joseph M. Sanzari
Children's Hospital at Hackensack University Medical Center, N.J.; Bristol-Myers
Squibb Children's Hospital at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, N.J.;
Winthrop-University Hospital Children's Medical Center on Long Island; the
Hospital for Special Surgery, Lenox Hill, and University of Rochester-Golisano
Children's Hospital.

None of the New York-area hospitals landed on U.S. News' elite 10-member honor
roll list. Those hospitals are Boston's Children's Hospital; Children's Hospital
of Philadelphia; Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center; Texas Children's
Hospital in Houston; Johns Hopkins Children's Center in Baltimore; Children's
Hospital in Los Angeles; Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago;
Nationwide Children's Hospital in Ohio; Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of
UPMC, and Children's National Medical Center in Washington.

Graphic:

STATE Hospital Total specialties ranked

N.J. Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital at Hackensack University Medical
Center 1

N.J. Bristol-Myers Squibb Children's Hospital at Robert Wood Johnson University
Hospital 1

N.Y. Winthrop-University Hospital Children's Medical Center 3

N.Y. Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical Center 9

N.Y. New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital 10

N.Y. Children's Hospital at Montefiore 7

N.Y. Mount Sinai Kravis Children's Hospital 6

N.Y. Claire Tow Pediatric Pavilion at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center 1

N.Y. Hospital for Special Surgery 1

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TABLE, Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical Center in New Hyde
Park, L.I., ranked high in nine specialties. The Bronx's Children's Hospital at
Montefiore won a top spot specifically for its cancer-treatment unit. Mount
Sinai Kravis Children's Hospital was praised for its work in six medical
specialties. The two New York-Presbyterian children's hospitals get combined
honors in the U.S. News & World Report list.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Daily News, L.P.

                              263 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                 METRO EDITION

Mayo Clinic slips to 3rd in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: PAUL WALSH; MAURA LERNER; STAFF WRITERS, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 225 words


For the first time in two decades, the Mayo Clinic has lost its No. 2 spot in
the U.S. News World Report list of "Best Hospitals."

But it didn't fall far. Mayo, based in Rochester, is now the third best hospital
in the country, behind Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and Massachusetts
General Hospital in Boston, according to the magazine's annual ranking.

"It's not disheartening," said Karl Oestreich, a Mayo spokesman. He noted that
Mayo has held the No. 2 ranking for 22 years and is still one of only 17
hospitals in the country on the magazine's "honor roll."

"We're honored to be on that list," he said.

Hospitals in 94 metropolitan areas were analyzed in the 22nd annual list.
Criteria included death rates, patient safety, procedure volume and other
objective data. Also, physicians were asked to name hospitals they consider best
in their specialty for the toughest cases.

The hospitals are ranked for 16 medical specialties. Mayo ranked as first in the
country in four areas: diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology, gynecology,
and kidney disease. Other Minnesota hospitals, including Hennepin County Medical
Center and Abbott Northwestern in Minneapolis, also ranked in the top 50 for
various specialties.

To see the results, visit www.usnews.com/besthospitals. The Best Hospitals issue
will go on sale Aug. 30.

PAUL WALSH, MAURA LERNER

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Mercy Medical Center Ranked 3 Hospital in Maryland by US News, World Report

LENGTH: 443  words


Aug. 2 -- Mercy Medical Center has been ranked as a top hospital in Maryland for
2016-17 by U.S. News & World Report in its annual "Best Hospitals" edition.
Mercy was ranked nationally (47th) as a best hospital for Orthopedics.

Mercy was also named "High Performing" in seven specialty procedure categories:
Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Repair, Heart Failure, Colon Cancer Surgery, Chronic
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), Hip Replacement, Knee Replacement and Lung
Cancer Surgery.

"Mercy is proud to be ranked nationally and recognized as high performing as
another affirmation of Mercy's commitment to high-quality health care," said
Thomas R. Mullen, President and CEO of Mercy Health Services. "Mercy's ranking
as third best Hospital in Maryland is evidence of the ongoing efforts of our
staff to deliver superior clinical care in a compassionate setting which is the
hallmark of the Sisters of Mercy."

"U.S. News evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals nationwide," said Ben Harder, Chief
of Health Analysis at U.S. News. "A hospital that emerged from our analysis as
one of the best has much to be proud of."

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates, adequacy of nurse staffing and more.

For 2016-17, 153 hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628
received a high performing rating in one or more specialties, procedures or
conditions. In rankings by state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals
that were high-performing across multiple areas of care.

According to Mr. Mullen, in addition to this national honor, Mercy in 2016
received redesignation as a Magnet hospital for nursing excellence. For the
fifth consecutive year, Mercy received the Women's Choice Award as one of
America's Best Hospitals for Patient Experience and was named one of the top 100
hospitals in the U.S. by Thomson Reuters. Mercy continues to earn important
medical accreditations and awards of excellence.

The U.S. News rankings and methodology for Mercy Medical Center are available
online.

Mercy Medical Center is a 142-year-old, university affiliated medical facility
named one of the top 100 hospitals in the nation and among 10 best centers for
women's health care. Founded by the Sisters of Mercy, Mercy Medical Center is
located in the heart of downtown Baltimore, MD. For more information, visit
www.mdmercy.com or call 1-800-M.D.-Mercy.

Source: Mercy Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              July 13, 2008 Sunday

Miami Valley Hospital, Kettering Medical rated among best in U.S.

BYLINE: By Anthony Gottschlich Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 336 words


Two local hospitals are among those recognized by U.S. News & World Report in it
annual "America's Best Hospitals" issue released Friday, July 11.

The magazine ranked Miami Valley Hospital 49th in the nation for orthopedic
care, the sixth time Miami Valley has earned a spot on the list of best
hospitals. Kettering Medical Center made the list for the fourth time, ranking
38th for endocrinology and 43rd for gastrointestinal disorders.

Miami Valley's ranking is its first for orthopedic care.

"This recognition speaks to an amazing amount of hard work and dedication by our
physicians, nurses and hospital leadership to provide the best clinical care
available to our patients," said Mary Boosalis, the hospital's president and
CEO.

Dr. Greg Wise, Kettering's vice president for medical affairs, attributed his
hospital's performance to "exceptional outcomes from a coordinated and dedicated
team."

"We have made at least one of the lists three years in a row now, and we have
been very diligent in following national best practices to keep our clinical
quality high," Wise said.

The 2008 America's Best Hospital Guide ranks 170 medical centers nationwide in
16 specialties. The rankings in 12 of the 16 specialties weigh three elements
equally: reputation, death rate, and a set of care-related factors such as
nursing and patient services.

Of the 170, just 19 were of "Honor Roll" caliber, where a hospital had to
achieve high scores in six or more specialties. Top hospitals were Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., Ronald Reagan UCLA
Medical Center in Los Angeles and the Cleveland Clinic.

In previous years, Miami Valley has ranked in ear, nose and throat and
respiratory care, digestive disorders, heart surgery and geriatrics, gynecology,
neurology, neurosurgery and rheumatology.

Kettering's past honors were in endocrinology, digestive disorders and cancer
care, as well as in neurology and neurosurgery.

Contact this reporter at (937) 225-7408 or agottschlich@DaytonDaily News.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              266 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 21, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Two Baylor Health Care System Hospitals and a Physician Practice Earn National
Award for Excellence

LENGTH: 427  words


New Delhi, Nov. 21 -- Two Baylor Health Care System hospitals and a HealthTexas
Provider Network group are Press Ganey 2013 Beacon of Excellence Award winners.

Baylor Jack and Jane Hamilton Heart and Vascular Hospital and The Heart Hospital
Baylor Plano are Beacon of Excellence Award winners for inpatient satisfaction.
The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano also received a Beacon Award for emergency
department satisfaction. This year, HealthTexas Provider Network-Signature
Medicine, also received the Beacon Award.



The Beacon of Excellence Award, formerly the Summit Award, is one of Press
Ganey's most prestigious awards, honoring health care organizations that sustain
an overall patient satisfaction rank above the 95th percentile for at least the
past three consecutive years. This award is given to the top three performing
organizations by category on the basis of extraordinary achievement. Only 100
organizations receive the award in each category.

This is the fourth year in a row that The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano has won
this top award for both inpatient and emergency department satisfaction, which
is 24 consecutive quarters-or six years-of ranking above the 95th percentile in
these areas.

Baylor Jack and Jane Hamilton Heart and Vascular Hospital has also won the
inpatient Beacon Award for four years in a row, which is 24 consecutive
quarters-or six years-of ranking above the 95th percentile for inpatient
satisfaction.

Signature Medicine, a HealthTexas Provider Network group, has maintained the
above-95 percentile ranking for 12 consecutive quarters-or three years.

"This honor confirms the steadfast commitment these hospitals have to role model
excellence for patients and families on a daily basis," says Terri Nuss, vice
president, Office of Patient Centeredness. "Beacon of Excellence Award
recipients set themselves apart from the competition by demonstrating their
dedication to improvement and sustaining excellence in both quality of care and
patient satisfaction. Achieving a patient satisfaction ranking above the 95th
percentile for the required three-year period is difficult enough. Yet both
THHBP and BHVH have maintained that ranking for several years. Congratulations
to all on this extraordinary accomplishment."

Seven Baylor entities received Press Ganey's Guardian of Excellence Awards. This
award honors health care organizations that have reached the 95th percentile for
patient satisfaction, employee engagement, or physician engagement surveys or
clinical quality performance and is awarded annually based on one year of data.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 12, 2016 Friday

UI Health ranked No. 8 in Illinois

LENGTH: 548  words

DATELINE: New York



 Urbana: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois has issued the
following news release:



   The University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System is ranked in the
top 10 hospitals in the Chicago metro area and in Illinois for 2016-17 by U.S.
News & World Report.





 The hospital, which was ranked 23rd regionally and 27th in the state last year,
rose to the No. 8 spot in both categories this year.UI Hospital building at dusk




 "These rankings reflect the continuous efforts of our staff to improve patient
safety and outcomes and to create a better patient experience from the moment
they walk in the door, to the time they leave the hospital and on to follow up
care," said Avijit Ghosh, chief executive officer, UI Health Hospital and
Clinics.



 "To be ranked in the top 10 hospitals in Chicago and across the state means
that our patients, including a significant underserved population that has
traditionally carried a disproportionate burden of disease, is getting some of
the very best care available," said Dr. Robert Barish, vice chancellor for
health affairs at the University of Illinois at Chicago. "We're making continued
progress towards reducing health disparities that affect our local communities."




 The leap forward in the rankings can be attributed to the success of numerous
programs focused on improving outcomes for both inpatients and outpatients, said
Jodi Joyce, associate vice chancellor for quality and patient safety at UI
Health.



 "University of Illinois Hospital has initiated a number of efforts aimed at
substantially improving care processes and clinical outcomes," Joyce said. "Led
by teams of physicians, nurses, and other clinical leaders and staff, these
initiatives have resulted in double-digit reductions in hospital-related
infections, blood clots after surgery, and patients injured from falls. We are
excited that the change in our ranking is a direct reflection of improvements in
the care that our patients are receiving."



 The rankings, produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a research
organization based in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, are now in their
27th year. They focus on 25 specialties, procedures and conditions. The ranking
is based on such measures as patient survival, the number of times each
procedure is performed, infection rates, and nurse staffing.



 UI Health's otolaryngology/ear, nose and throat program made the list of ranked
specialty programs for the first time this year. The hospital's nephrology
program was listed as a high-performing specialty.



 The University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System is a public
academic medical center committed to providing the highest quality care for all
patients and to reducing health disparities. UI Health is a leader in patient
care, research and education, and serves as the primary teaching facility for
the UIC College of Medicine, the largest medical school in the U.S. The system
includes seven health sciences colleges, a 495-bed hospital, the 101-bed
Children's Hospital University of Illinois, an outpatient care center and 13
federally qualified Mile Square Health Centers located throughout Chicago.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospitals report card doesn't name facilities

BYLINE: The Daily News; with reports The Canadian Press

SECTION: CITY & REGION; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 333  words


Health Minister George Abbott is discounting a report card on 95 B.C. hospitals
compiled by the Fraser Institute.

The researchers have complained that regional health authorities refused to
identify any of the hospitals, but Abbott said that's because the institute
would not agree to a proper methodology and was not comparing apples to apples.

He said Monday a report card is not a bad idea, but it must be done in a fair
and scientifically rigorous way.

Abbott said a similar report card on hospitals in Ontario has also been
criticized for the way the material was compiled.

NDP health critic Adrian Dix said it's wrong for Abbott to try to dictate the
method used by the Fraser Institute. The institute says its peer-reviewed study
used material from a database at the Canadian Institute for Health Information,
taken from patient records provided by all B.C. hospitals.

While the report doesn't name the province's hospitals, it does rank the
municipalities they are in, putting Nelson at the top and Salmon Arm at the
bottom of the heath-care heap.

The rankings are based on a hospital mortality index and compare scores and
rankings from 2001-02 to 2003-04 with 2004-05 and 2005-06.

Within the Interior Health Authority's turf, Nelson was first, Penticton placed
third, Kamloops was 22nd, Kelowna was 14th and Vernon ranked 18th.

Kamloops saw its score drop by 7.4 per cent from 2001-02 to 2003-04, but it
actually moved up from 23rd to 22nd spot.

The hospital mortality index uses nine indicators, including death rates related
to hip replacement, acute myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, acute
stroke, gastrointestinal hemorrhage and hip fracture, pneumonia.

Nadeem Esmail, director of health system performance studies at the Fraser
Institute and co-author of the report, criticized the province's health
authorities for refusing to identify any of the 95 hospitals involved.

However, he noted that municipality ranking is different than hospital ranking,
because patients do move around.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Abbott ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                           September 18, 1998, Friday

Ranking upsets Mains

BYLINE: FORDE Rachel

SECTION: NEWS; LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 372 words


MIDCENTRAL Health chief executive Margot Mains is unhappy with Palmerston North
Hospital's ranking in the Government's Hospital Services Plan, which was
announced this week.

She said the ranking, which classifies Palmerston North Hospital as a "secondary
hospital that also provides some lower-level tertiary services", was "somewhat
understated".

The classification ranks Palmerston North Hospital below Waikato and Dunedin's
public hospitals, which are classed as "lower-level tertiary", and on a similar
level to Wanganui, Masterton and Kaitaia's hospitals, which are also classed as
secondary hospitals.

Mrs Mains said today the ranking did not fully recognise Palmerston North
Hospital's role as a lower-level tertiary and regional service provider.

The hospital's regional cancer treatment service, for example, was an important
part of its activities and justified the higher recognition.

Patients from as far away as New Plymouth, Hawke's Bay and Gisborne travel to
Palmerston North for cancer treatment.

Mrs Mains said the commitment the plan gave hospitals was encouraging, but the
strength of this commitment depended on MidCentral Health gaining long-term
contracts and funding from the Health Funding Authority.

This applied not only to Palmerston North Hospital, but also to Feilding's
Clevely Centre, Horowhenua Hospital and all of MidCentral Health's services.

Yesterday, Good Health Wanganui chief executive Sue de Gilio called for
three-to-five year funding contracts to give public hospitals more certainty.
Presently, hospitals must re-negotiate their funding with the authority every
year.

Rangitikei Mayor John Wilson said yesterday he was thrilled that Wanganui
Hospital's future had been secured, and Taihape and Marton would also get to
keep their health centres for at least the next three years.

"It's a big relief and it's particularly great for our senior citizens. The
concern was that Marton and Taihape (hospitals) would close," Mr Wilson said.

"It will give us a breathing space to concentrate on issues other than health
for a while."

Health Minister Bill English has said that hospitals and health centres named in
the plan will not close in the next three years.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 Fairfax New Zealand

                              270 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

UAB named to list of 100 Great Hospitals

LENGTH: 316  words

DATELINE: Birmingham


The University of Alabama at Birmingham has issued the following news release:

UAB Hospital has been named to Becker's Hospital Review's list of 100 Great
Hospitals in the United States. UAB is the only Alabama hospital to make the
list, and one of a dozen from the Southeast.

The Becker's Hospital Review editorial team conducted research and examined
several hospital ranking sources such as U.S. News & World Report, Healthgrades,
Truven Health Analytics and The Leapfrog Group and magnet designation from the
American Nurses Credentialing Center.

"Each of the 100 organizations has a strong foundation of high-quality care,
stellar credentials and a focus on doing what is right for the patients in its
community," according to the Becker's Hospital Review website. "They are home to
many medical and scientific breakthroughs, provide best-in-class patient care,
and are stalwarts of their communities, serving as research hubs or local
anchors of wellness."

Becker's Hospital Review says that the list is not a ranking or an endorsement
and that hospitals cannot pay for inclusion on the list.

The Becker's website notes that UAB Hospital is one of the largest hospitals in
the nation by bed size (1,157 beds) and is the largest academic medical center
in the state. The website cites U.S. News & World Report's 2014-15 rankings, in
which UAB Hospital is the No. 1 hospital in Alabama and is nationally ranked in
eight specialties.

Becker's lauds the hospital for receiving a 2015 Women's Choice Award
acknowledging the UAB Breast Health Center's dedication to exceptional patient
care and treatment and notes that the hospital is home to the UAB Comprehensive
Diabetes Research Center, which helped the hospital be named one of the top 50
in the nation for diabetes and endocrinology.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL Edition

Maine Medical Center gets national recognition for care;
Its being among the top 50 U.S. hospitals in two specialities shows quality is
close at hand.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 275 words


Maine Medical Center deserves credit for being listed among the nation's top 50
hospitals for orthopedics and heart care and cardiac surgery.

But even more noteworthy, that ranking is a sign to Mainers themselves that it
isn't always necessary to go out of state for top-level care.

The listings were printed in the July 23-30 issue of U.S. News & World Report, a
newsweekly that has carved out a niche for ratings, including its more
controversial rating of colleges and universities.

Nevertheless, U.S. News lays out the standards it uses for its rankings of
''America's Best Hospitals'' clearly.

In 12 of the 16 categories it uses, hard data such as numbers of cases, death
rates, reputation and care-related factors such as nursing and advanced services
and other statistical categories provide the foundation for its conclusions.

In the others, ''annual surveys of physician specialists'' provide the outline
the magazine uses, with the hospital required to be named among the best in its
speciality by at least one physician in the last three annual physician surveys.

Out of 5,462 hospitals considered for ranking, only 173 met the standards in one
or more specialities. MMC was the only Maine hospital included in any of the
2007 lists.

MMC was ranked 45th for orthopedics and 50th for heart care and surgery. Those
rankings placed the hospital in the top 1 percent of those considered.

Primarily, it's a tribute to medical professionals at all levels who have worked
long and hard to make MMC the quality institution it is.

But it also shows that, in some areas at least, the best care in the country
isn't across state lines. It's right down the road.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                           December 12, 2000 Tuesday

Company: St. John's among top 100 facilities in country  ;
 Recognized for stroke, orthopedic health care

BYLINE: TONY CAPPASSO STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 401 words


A company that assesses health-care quality ranks St. John's Hospital among the
top 100 hospitals nationwide in treating orthopedic problems and stroke.

The Springfield hospital made the top 100 based on comparison of cost and other
criteria in the treatment of these patients, according to the Web site,
www.100TopHospitals.com, which is run by the health-care quality assessment firm
HCIA-Sachs.

St. John's also ended up among the top medical centers that offer orthopedic
surgery residency training, where would-be orthopedic surgeons learn the ropes
of the specialty.

Only 15 hospitals that offer such training made the top-100 list nationwide and
only one hospital in Illinois other than St. John's, Evanston Northwestern
Hospital, earned the ranking.

They compared outcomes for patients who had one of four types of orthopedic
surgery: total knee replacement, total hip replacement, partial hip replacement
and open reduction of a hip fracture with a procedure called "internal fixation
of the femoral neck."

To make it into the survey, a hospital had to have at least 200 patient cases
and at least 30 cases in each of the different surgical procedures. St. John's
treats more than 4,000 orthopedic cases each year, hospital statistics indicate.

Achieving the ranking is the culmination of a decade of effort, said St. John's
Hospital chairman of orthopedics Dr. Dan Adair, an orthopedic surgeon at
Springfield Clinic.

"This award is the capstone of a more-than-10-year quality improvement and cost
containment effort," Adair said in a written statement.

In the stroke rankings, HCIA-Sachs compared outcomes for patients treated for
ischemic strokes, the most common type, using basically the same criteria as in
the orthopedic rankings.

St. John's scored among the top 100 hospitals that have neurology specialty
training programs.

Neurologists - doctors who specialize in diseases of the brain and nervous
system - often treat patients who have had strokes, which happen when something
interferes with blood flow to the brain.

Only 17 hospitals nationwide achieved top-100 status in both orthopedics and
stroke treatment, according to HCIA-Sachs spokeswoman Kerry Lydon-Minton.

HCIA-Sachs evaluated hospitals based on both clinical and economic data,
Lydon-Minton said. How much it cost to provide care was as influential in
placing a hospital in the top 100 as how good the care was, she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2000 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Capital (Annapolis, Maryland)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           November 3, 2016 Thursday

AAMC ranked 8th best hospital in Maryland

BYLINE: Meredith Newman, The Capital, Annapolis, Md.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


Nov. 03--Anne Arundel Medical Center has been ranked the 8th best hospital in
the state, according U.S. News and World Report's best regional hospital
rankings.

The rankings, which came out Thursday, named Johns Hopkins Hospital and
University of Maryland Medical Center has the top two hospitals in Maryland. Out
of 70 hospitals in the state, U.S. News and World Report ranked the top 15.

AAMC earned the highest ratings possible in seven procedures: abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, colon cancer surgery,
heart failure, hip replacement, knee replacement and lung cancer surgery,
according to the rankings.

U.S. News ranked the top hospitals in every state. The organization analyzed
data from about 5,000 hospital centers, and based scores on patient outcome and
care-related factors, like patient safety and nurse staffing.

University of Baltimore Washington Maryland Medical Center was not ranked, but
University of Maryland Medical Center was. Both hospitals are a part of the
University of Maryland Medical System.

BWMC and AAMC are both waiting to hear if the Maryland Health Care Commission
will approve the hospitals' applications for an open heart surgery program. The
hospitals submitted for their applications for the certificate of need in
February 2015, following a change to the state health plan for cardiac services.

Politicians and hospitals officials have been vocal about how long the process
has taken. The commission has said it has to carefully analyze the applications
because of the potential for legal challenges from competitors if one or both of
the hospitals are approved to have the program.

___ (c)2016 The Capital (Annapolis, Md.) Visit The Capital (Annapolis, Md.) at
www.hometownannapolis.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161103-UU-AAMC-ranked-8th-best-hospital-in-Maryland-1103-20161103

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UU


                                 Copyright 2016

                              274 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

Minnesota: Statement from Governor Dayton on Mayo Clinic Earning the Ranking of
Best Hospital in the Nation for 2014-2015

LENGTH: 160  words

DATELINE: Saint Paul


Office of the Governor, The State of Minnesota has issued the following press
release:

Today, Mayo Clinic achieved the highest honor in U.S. News and World Report's
ranking of top hospitals, making it the best hospital in the country. Mayo
Clinic earned more number one rankings than any other provider, ranking  number
one or number two in 11 of the 12 specialties based on reputation, services and
volumes, safety and clinical outcomes. Following the release of the new
rankings, Governor Mark Dayton released the following statement:

"These rankings reaffirm what millions of patients and doctors around the world
already know: Mayo Clinic offers the best medical care in the world. Thanks to
the wise investment made by our State Legislature in the development of a
Destination Medical Center, I am confident Mayo will continue its tradition of
excellence into the future. Congratulations, Mayo!"

For further information please visit: http://mn.gov/governor/

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday

U.S. News and World Report recognizes two local institutions as among best
hospitals

BYLINE: Kelly McLendon, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 423 words


July 16--U.S. News and World Report magazine has designated two local medical
institutions -- the University of Toledo Medical Center and ProMedica Toledo
Hospital -- among the best hospitals in Ohio.

The two tied for 22nd place in the magazine's 2013 rankings of the state's 230
hospitals.

The University of Toledo Medical Center, formerly the Medical College of Ohio
Hospital, ranked as a high-performer in six clinical specialties: geriatrics,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology.

Dr. Jeffrey Gold, chancellor and executive vice president for biosciences and
health affairs, and dean of the College of Medicine and Life Sciences at the
University of Toledo, said the center is pleased with the rankings.

"We are extremely proud and humbled by this recognition. It's a team effort that
allows this to occur and it's great for our community to have one or more
institutions that are recognized this way," he said.

Dr. Gold said that safety, quality, and patient satisfaction contribute to a
positive experience for patients at UTMC.

The magazine also ranked ProMedica Toledo Hospital as a high-performer in six
clinical specialities: gastroenterology and GI surgery, gynecology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology.

In patient satisfaction rankings, 65 percent of ProMedica Toledo Hospital
patients said they would recommend the hospital to family and friends. The state
average is 70 percent. At the University of Toledo Medical Center, 58 percent
said they would recommend the hospital.

Arturo Polizzi, chief operating officer of ProMedica Hospital, said the facility
sets goals to maintain standards of quality.

"When we set our targets, we don't try to compare ourselves against Ohio
hospitals. We try to compare ourselves against national-best players in the
market. So when we look at quality-metrics, satisfaction-metrics, we look
throughout the entire country at the best players and we set goals for ourselves
based on those benchmarks," he said.

Mr. Polizzi said having multiple hospitals in the area with top distinctions can
be helpful to the community as a whole.

"I just wanted to clarify that we were both kind of up at the top," he said. "I
think that bodes well for the community that we have a couple of hospitals here
in the top ranking."

Contact Kelly McLendon at: kmclendon@theblade.com or 419-724-6522 or on Twitter
@KMcBlade.

___ (c)2013 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130716-TO-U-S-News-and-World-Report-recognizes-two-local-institutions-as-among
-best-hospitals-0716-20130716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2013 The Blade

                              276 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    March 10, 1995, Friday, JOURNAL EDITION

METRO AND GEORGIA IN BRIEF;
Georgia grad schools tops in survey

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: STATE NEWS, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 449 words


Three Georgia universities fared well in the annual rankings of graduate schools
by U.S. News & World Report released this week. Georgia Tech was ranked first in
the nation for industrial/manufacturing programs in engineering, with an overall
ranking of 11th for graduate engineering programs. Tech also garnered a 26th
national ranking for its master's of business administration program.

Emory University earned the most national rankings: physical therapy, sixth;
master's of business administration and medicine programs, 23rd; law and history
programs, 25th; and nursing, 34th.

The University of Georgia's master's of public administration was ranked sixth
nationally. Other rankings for the university included: education, 15th; law,
27th; and master's of business administration, 40th.

The magazine's rankings are based on data such as student selectivity and job
placement, and surveys of college officials. Several of the rankings will be
featured in the March 13 issue of the magazine. On March 27, more comprehensive
listings will be available in the U.S. News Graduate School Guide Book.

EDUCATION

SPLIT SHIFTS OK'D FOR CHATTAHOOCHEE HIGH: The Fulton County school board on
Thursday night approved overlapping sessions to relieve overcrowding at
Chattahoochee High School in Alpharetta. The sessions are scheduled to begin
this fall and end in 1997, when a new high school opens at Scott and Holcolmb
Bridge roads. Overlapping sessions haven't been used in the metro area since the
mid-1980s, when they were needed at Lassiter High in Cobb County. Chattahoochee
High, which opened in 1991, is more than 500 students over capacity and is
gaining about 300 students a year. Beginning this fall, the school will operate
on split shifts. Sophomores, juniors and seniors will begin school at 7 a.m. and
leave at 1:51 p.m. Freshmen will follow the school's current schedule of
beginning at 9 a.m. and leaving at 3:45 p.m.

EMORY SEEKING NEW HEALTH EXECUTIVE: The board of the Robert W. Woodruff Health
Sciences Center at Emory University has formed a search committee to find a new
vice president for health affairs and director of the center. Dr. Charles R.
Hatcher, who has held the administrative positions since 1983 and has been on
the Emory faculty for 33 years, plans to step down sometime after his 65th
birthday on June 28, Emory officials said. The director of the Health Sciences
Center also is chief executive officer of the Emory University System of Health
Care, which oversees Emory University Hospital's affiliations with Egleston
Children's Hospital, Wesley Woods Geriatric Hospital, Grady Memorial Hospital
and the Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution

                              277 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                              July 1, 2016 Friday

Dismal state of govt hospitals

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 344  words


When it comes to world rankings in any sector, Pakistan has hardly ever had
anything positive to write home about. The Ranking Web of World Hospitals
elucidates that Pakistan's best public-sector hospital ranks 5,911 in the entire
world. It is no wonder then that the country's leaders run to foreign shores as
soon as they need medical treatment; they do not trust the quality of service
offered by hospitals run under their own watch. According to this ranking, there
are only four public-sector hospitals among Pakistan's top 20 medical
establishments. The country's best hospital a privately-operated one ranks 1,842
in the world. It is a sorry situation for the majority of our citizens, who do
not have the expensive option of going abroad for medical treatment and must
make do with the local hospital system.

The rankings that have been released are used by international agencies, such as
the World Health Organisation (WHO) when deciding their grant allocations. With
such poor standing and rampant corruption in public-sector health, attracting
grants from foreign donors to improve the dilapidated conditions of our
hospitals is a tall order indeed. At the same time provincial and federal
governments seem to think that our tax money is better spent elsewhere. The
latest economic survey shows that the health sector received only 0.45 per cent
of GDP during the first nine months of the fiscal year, which is almost
unchanged from FY2014-15, when it stood at 0.42 per cent of GDP. According to
the World Bank, Pakistan spends $37 (Rs3,873) per capita on health, which is
lower than the WHO-prescribed level of $44 per capita (Rs4,606) the minimum
spending package required for essential health services. It is unjust that our
public office holders head abroad when they need treatment while millions of
impoverished citizens travel hours for subpar treatment at decrepit government
hospitals. It is a pity that we have been unable to produce a single world class
health institution in Pakistan's public sector even after almost 70 years of
independence.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital ranking praised

BYLINE: Bernice Trick, The Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 446  words


The Fraser Institute's ranking of Prince George Regional Hospital as the
sixth-best hospital in B.C. sits well with Northern Health.

"We're pleased with the way PGRH and northern hospitals in general were ranked
using this particular methodology," said Dr. David Butcher, NH vice-president of
medicine. "It validates that the care received in our facilities is of high
quality and comparable to what you'd expect elsewhere. So our first reaction is
we're very pleased with the way PGRH fared."

The report card includes 95 B.C. acute-care hospitals and compares their
performance on 39 separate indicators of quality and patient safety compiled
into a hospital mortality Index. The report card allows the public to look up a
specific condition or procedure and compare the outcomes in their hospital to
others in the province. The report is available online at
www.hospitalreportcards.ca.

Butcher said Northern Health's second reaction is that although the set of
indicators used will provide another way of measuring the quality of care and
performance, it doesn't tell the whole story.

"The hospital mortality index, for instance, is based on a very narrow range of
only nine indicators and because it includes things like death following hip
surgery, it rules out a number of our facilities where that type of surgery is
not done," Butcher said.

"The only NH facilities listed under the hospital mortality index are PGRH and
Dawson Creek (which ranked 20th in B.C.), where all nine of the indicators can
be measured. So the mortality index by itself is a fairly rough way of looking
at performance.

"But we do use the Canadian Institute for Health Information hospital
standardized mortality rate index which is based on 80 per cent of all in-
hospital deaths whereas the Fraser Institute is based on mortality rates in only
nine categories.

He said CIHI measures facilities against like-facilities across the country in
matters like population, demographics and complexity of care and places
facilities in groupings rather than simply numerically ranking them against
other facilities.

"To link Prince Rupert, Chetwynd and Vancouver General hospitals together in a
ranking system is not fair to any one of them," Butcher said.

He summed up the importance of the Fraser Institute report by saying "it's an
interesting way of viewing quality and allows us one way of examining it, but
more importantly we're looking within the report at specific indicators and
trends within the hospitals over time."

He noted that in some instance, those indicators "per 1,000" patients don't
always give the true picture in smaller facilities where patient numbers are
much lower than the larger hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Citizen Photo by David Mah; Taste of summer  -- You know it's
summer when the drinking fountain is on at Fort George Park. Finn Thielmann, 2,
left, looks forward to his turn after four-year old Isaac Wright. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               London Free Press

                            November 11, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Lawson keeps high ranking; London institute holds on to 8th spot on list of
Canada ' s Top 40 hospitalbased research centres

BYLINE: John Miner, The London Free Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 280  words


London's Lawson Health research institute has been ranked, again, among Canada's
top research hospitals.

The research institute of St. Joseph's Health Care London and London Health
Sciences Centre, Lawson placed eighth in the Top 40 list released Thursday.

Factors included in the ranking include total research income from the previous
year.

Last year, Lawson received about $115 million in research income, up2.2 per cent
from the previous budget year.

The ranking is done annually by research infosource inc., a Toronto-based
clearing house on research and development information.

Lawson also placed eighth on the list last year.

Lawson is one of two major medical research institutes in London. The other,
opened in 1986, is Robarts research institute at Western University. dr. David
Hill, Lawson's scientific director, said in a statement the results show Lawson
is up there with some of Canada's largest and most successful research
hospitals.

" Despite increased competition for research dollars, the ranking tells us that
Lawson and our two partner hospitals continue to be a major part of Canada's
academic hospital-based research ," he said.

Canada's Top 10 1. University Health Network (Toronto) 2. Hospital for Sick
Children (Toronto) 3. McGill University Health Centre (Montreal) 4. Hamilton
Health Sciences 5. Provincial Health Services Authority (British Columbia) 6.
Ottawa Hospital 7. Vancouver Coastal Health Authority 8. Lawson Health Research
Institute (London) 9. CHU de Quebec - Universite Laval (Quebec City) 10.
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (Toronto)

jminer @postmedia. com com twitter @JohnatLFPress !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Sun Media
Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 London Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               London Free Press

                           November 10, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Lawson keeps high ranking; London institute holds on to 8th spot on list of
Canada ' s Top 40 hospitalbased research centres

BYLINE: John Miner, The London Free Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 280  words


London's Lawson Health research institute has been ranked, again, among Canada's
top research hospitals.

The research institute of St. Joseph's Health Care London and London Health
Sciences Centre, Lawson placed eighth in the Top 40 list released Thursday.

Factors included in the ranking include total research income from the previous
year.

Last year, Lawson received about $115 million in research income, up2.2 per cent
from the previous budget year.

The ranking is done annually by research infosource inc., a Toronto-based
clearing house on research and development information.

Lawson also placed eighth on the list last year.

Lawson is one of two major medical research institutes in London. The other,
opened in 1986, is Robarts research institute at Western University. dr. David
Hill, Lawson's scientific director, said in a statement the results show Lawson
is up there with some of Canada's largest and most successful research
hospitals.

" Despite increased competition for research dollars, the ranking tells us that
Lawson and our two partner hospitals continue to be a major part of Canada's
academic hospital-based research ," he said.

Canada's Top 10 1. University Health Network (Toronto) 2. Hospital for Sick
Children (Toronto) 3. McGill University Health Centre (Montreal) 4. Hamilton
Health Sciences 5. Provincial Health Services Authority (British Columbia) 6.
Ottawa Hospital 7. Vancouver Coastal Health Authority 8. Lawson Health Research
Institute (London) 9. CHU de Quebec - Universite Laval (Quebec City) 10.
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (Toronto)

jminer @postmedia. com com twitter @JohnatLFPress !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Sun Media
Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 London Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday
                                 Metro Edition

Mayo ranked 2nd in nation - again

BYLINE: Glenn Howatt, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 222 words


The Mayo Clinic in Rochester was once again ranked second in the U.S. News &
World Report honor roll of the nation's best hospitals.

The perennial magazine ranking, one of several attempts to name the best through
measures of reputation, mortality, staffing and other factors, identified 14
hospitals on the honor roll that ranked high in at least six specialities. Johns
Hopkins in Baltimore topped the list.

Mayo was named the top hospital for orthopedics, neurology and neurosurgery,
endocrinology and digestive disorders.

The world-renown institution also came in second or third for gynecology,
cardiology and heart surgery, kidney disease, respiratory disorders, urology and
rheumatology.

In addition to its clinic and outpatient facilities, Mayo's Rochester
organization includes Methodist and Saint Marys hospitals.

The University of Minnesota Medical Center was named among the best 50 hospitals
in 11 specialities, with its highest placement at 19th for kidney disease.

Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis was noted in four specialities;
Abbott Northwestern in Minneapolis was named in three and St. Cloud Hospital was
noted in two specialties.

The magazine said it developed its rankings by screening 5,189 hospitals, with
176 hospitals earning mention for at least one of the 16 specialties.

Glenn Howatt - 612-673-7192

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2006 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 13, 2012 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

The Mount Sinai Medical Center Rises to No. 14 in Best Hospitals Rankings by
U.S. News and World Report

LENGTH: 509  words


New Delhi, Sept. 13 -- The Mount Sinai Medical Center ranked 14th out of
approximately 5,000 hospitals nationwide in the 2012-2013 "Best Hospitals" issue
of U.S. News & World Report, moving up from 16th last year and retaining its
spot on the U.S. News "Honor Roll" of the nation's most outstanding hospitals.



Mount Sinai is nationally ranked in 11 out of 16 specialties and in the top ten
in three of those: Geriatrics (#2), Gastroenterology (#7) and Cardiology & Heart
Surgery (#10). Mount Sinai made remarkable gains in several specialties,
including: Ear, Nose & Throat, which rose from 18 to 11; Neurology &
Neurosurgery, which improved from 22 to 15; and Urology, which advanced from 35
to 29. Mount Sinai also improved its year-to-year rankings in Diabetes &
Endocrinology, Gynecology, and Rehabilitation. In addition, Mount Sinai was
high-performing in Psychiatry, Orthopaedics, and Pulmonology.

"Mount Sinai is leading a revolution in healthcare by taking a team approach to
practicing medicine, a paradigm that is especially important in light of the
changing healthcare landscape," said Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and Chief
Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai Medical Center. "Our success with this
comprehensive care model has earned us our place among the best medical centers
in the country, and we are proud to be recognized in these rankings."

Mount Sinai also ranked among the best hospitals in the New York metropolitan
area. Covering 94 metro areas in the United States, the regional hospital
rankings complement the national rankings by including hospitals with solid
performance in one or more of the 16 specialties in the Best Hospitals list.

"We are pleased by this special recognition of The Mount Sinai Hospital and our
many clinical centers of excellence," said Wayne Keathley, President and Chief
Operating Officer of The Mount Sinai Hospital. "This is especially meaningful to
the thousands of physicians, nurses, and support staff who serve our very
diverse patient population, which includes those from the most affluent and also
poorest neighborhoods in America. These physicians and staff represent the front
line of health reform and we salute their steadfast commitment to providing the
highest quality of care to all patients."

Dennis S. Charney, MD, Dean of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Executive Vice
President for Academic Affairs of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, said, "Mount
Sinai has a legacy of groundbreaking scientific discoveries that has led to
improved methods of diagnosing and treating human disease. Presently, we are
recruiting outstanding physicians and scientists to literally every Department
and Institute, while we plan the opening of our state-of-the-art Center for
Science and Medicine, thus ensuring that we will continue to be at the cutting
edge of biomedical science and clinical excellence."

The 2012-2013 edition of the Best Hospitals Honor Roll, published by U.S. News &
World Report, can be found online at www.usnews.com/besthospitals and will be on
newsstands Tuesday, August 28.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

OHRH ranked in top seven hospitals in state

BYLINE: Jacob Dick, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 586 words


Aug. 09--Owensboro Health Regional Hospital has been named among the seven best
hospitals in Kentucky out of 120 in the new rankings of regional hospitals
released from U.S. News and World Report.

This is the first time the hospital has made the list occupied mostly by large
hospitals in Louisville, Lexington and Covington with health groups stretching
across Kentucky and Ohio. U.S. News and World Report ranks all qualified
hospitals in every state, but only awards recognition to hospitals meeting high
standards and for specific treatment areas with high performance.

The Kentucky list in ascending order of rank:

1.) University of Kentucky Albert B. Chandler Hospital, Lexington

2.) St. Elizabeth Healthcare Edgewood-Covington Hospital

3.) Baptist Health Lexington

4.) Norton Hospital, Louisville

5.) Baptist Health Louisville

6.) Jewish Hospital, Louisville

7.) Owensboro Health Regional Hospital

Greg Strahan, president and CEO of Owensboro Health, said the honor was
surprising but not unexpected after committed dedication to care initiatives at
the hospital.

"We've been dedicated to our strategic priorities of quality, safety, access and
affordability, so it's nice to see that work paying off," Strahan said. "We
weren't focused on this for the ranking, we were focused on this for the
patients and our improvement."

U.S. News and World Report uses a wide array of factors to organize its rankings
including performance in 16 specialties, patient feedback ratings and health
outcomes across several treatments and conditions.

The ranking of seven hospitals isn't an arbitrary number used by U.S. News and
World Report. Only hospitals meeting a benchmark of standards set by the
publication can be ranked in the state. In Kansas, two hospitals out of 150 are
ranked while seven out of 50 are ranked in Connecticut.

Strahan said being one of the only small regional hospitals to make the list
would serve as reinforcement for some of the engagements the facility has tried
to achieve with its community.

"It's almost like comparing yourself to a Fortune 500 company, seeing our name
next big hospitals with more resources, academic centers and more centralized
patient populations," Strahan said. "To be recognized among those groups is a
feather in our cap."

Owensboro Health was also recognized for high performance in heart failure, knee
replacement and hip replacement procedures. The highest scores for these
procedures came from reductions in patient stays, increase in outpatient
procedures, reduction in return stays and quality rehabilitation.

Strahan said the hospital had specifically focused on those initiatives as a
part of measurements given to hospitals after the Affordable Care Act was
enacted.

"The ACA has changed the landscape with how we've thought about delivering
health care," Strahan said. "We've developed more lean processes, used new
robotic and laparoscopic technology to reduce stays and extended care after
hospital stays."

According to U.S. News and World report, Owensboro Health Regional Hospital
currently has 356 beds, accepted 68,718 patients through its emergency room,
admitted 16,914 patients and performed 3,888 inpatient and 14,104 outpatient
surgeries last year.

Patient experience was ranked as average at three out of five stars.

Jacob Dick, 270-228-2837, jdick@messenger-inquirer.com,Twitter: @jdickjournalism

___ (c)2017 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170809-OW-OHRH-ranked-in-top-seven-hospitals-in-state-0809-20170809

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2017 Messenger-Inquirer

                              284 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

Low spot in ranks surprises hospital;
Sarasota Memorial is in top 50 in only two of U.S. News yearly specialty lists

BYLINE: By DAVID GULLIVER david.gulliver@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


For the past three years, Sarasota Memorial Hospital has trumpeted the release
of a national magazine's rankings of top hospitals.

In 2006, Sarasota Memorial was heralded as being among the nation's top 50
hospitals in six different specialties, including high-profile programs like
heart surgery and orthopedics.

This year's rankings, though, have hospital officials quietly poring over the
numbers.

U.S. News & World Report released its "America's Top Hospitals" rankings on its
Web site Friday. Sarasota Memorial ranked among the top 50 hospitals in two
specialties, cancer and geriatrics.

Officially, the hospital calls it an achievement just to make a list dominated
by big-name facilities like Johns Hopkins and the Mayo Clinic.

"We're delighted to be on the list at all, given that we're a community hospital
and not an academic medical center," President Gwen MacKenzie said.

Last year's performance led the magazine's health editor, a former National
Institutes of Health director, to single out Sarasota Memorial for showing how a
little hospital can match up with the nation's best.

But this year it fell off the charts in all but one of the six specialties noted
last year -- cancer care, where it ranked 45th. It also made the list at 48th
for geriatrics, which was not included in last year's rankings.

That sent MacKenzie and other hospital officials to their internal data, which
did not predict the magazine's findings.

"I'm surprised that we didn't maintain our position," said Judy Milne, executive
director of quality and patient safety.

The shuffled rankings may stem from a change in how the the magazine calculates
mortality rates, a key part of its system, U.S. News project editor Avery
Comarow said.

The magazine uses data from 2003 through 2005 on all Medicare patients at U.S.
hospitals.

In past years it looked at the percentage of a hospital's patients who died
before they could be discharged.

By that standard, Sarasota Memorial consistently scored better than the average
among the top 50 hospitals.

This year, the magazine moved to "30-day mortality rates," or the percentage who
died within a month of discharge.

That measure has become the health care industry standard, said Comarow, who has
edited all the "top hospital" projects.

"It recognizes that hospitals should bear some responsibility for the quality of
their health care even after patients go home," he said.

The new mortality rates affected hospitals more than any other change, Comarow
said. But he declined to discuss details for individual hospitals.

"Whether Sarasota was affected by this change I cannot say, but many hospitals
were," he said.

Milne said the hospital does not have 30-day mortality data, but related
measures like seven-day and 30-day readmission rates are low.

The hospital plans to purchase the magazine's analysis and examine how it
arrived at the results, she said.

Mortality data is only one-third of the analysis. It also uses a 2005 American
Hospital Association survey of members' technology, staffing and services.

That timing means recent changes were not included. Robotic surgery -- one of
five key technologies in the study -- came to Sarasota Memorial too late for
this year's survey, MacKenzie said.

The study also considers a hospital's reputation, measured by a survey asking
doctors to rank the top five U.S. hospitals for each specialty.

The survey, with its equal weight to mortality figures, has been the
most-criticized part of the U.S. News study.

In past years, Sarasota Memorial has received points for reputation only in
heart surgery and ear, nose and throat care. A small drop in survey responses
could have cost the hospital its status, MacKenzie said.

The hospital plans to keep citing the study, a mainstay of its marketing
efforts. It still is the only hospital south of Tampa making the list, and in
the top 3 percent nationally.

But its president said what matters is what the hospital and its peers are doing
to improve quality.

"The focus should be on what we're all doing for patients," MacKenzie said.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                       August 8, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Names The Medical Center of Aurora Among Best in
Colorado

BYLINE: The Medical Center of Aurora

LENGTH: 371  words


Aurora, CO,  August 08, 2017 --(PR.com)-- HCA/HealthONE's The Medical Center of
Aurora has been recognized as a Best Hospital for 2017-18 in the Denver metro
and Colorado by U.S. News & World Report.

The annual Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 28th year, are part of U.S.
News' patient portal, designed to help patients make informed decisions about
where to receive care for life-threatening conditions or for common elective
procedures.

The Medical Center of Aurora was also recognized as high performing in five
adult specialties which includes Diabetes and Endocrinology, Gastroenterology
and GI Surgery, Geriatrics, Nephrology, and Pulmonology. TMCA also rated as high
performing in four common adult procedures and conditions for the treatment of
patients who are 65 and older, which included Heart Bypass Surgery, Heart
Failure, Colon Cancer Surgery, and COPD.

"This ranking is a testament to the dedication of every employee and physician
at TMCA," said Dan Miller, President and CEO at The Medical Center of Aurora and
Spalding Rehabilitation Hospital. "We are blessed to have wonderful people who
truly enjoy their work and who are proud to be able to provide safe, high
quality care to our Aurora community."

For the 2017-18 rankings, U.S. News evaluated more than 4,500 medical centers
nationwide in 25 specialties, procedures and conditions. In the 16 specialty
areas, 152 hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty. In rankings by state
and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals as high performing across
multiple areas of care.

"For nearly three decades, we've strived to make hospital quality more
transparent to healthcare consumers nationwide," said Ben Harder, managing
editor and chief of health analysis at U.S. News. "By providing the most
comprehensive data available, we hope to give patients the information they need
to find the best care across a range of specialties."

The U.S. News methodologies include risk-adjusted survival and readmission
rates, volume, patient experience, patient safety, quality of nursing care and
other care-related indicators.

For more information on the 2017-18 rankings, please visit the U.S. News Best
Hospitals page and use #BestHospitals on Facebook and Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2017 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                              July 13, 2007 Friday

City Home to Many of 'America's Best Hospitals'

BYLINE: ELIZABETH SOLOMONT -, Special to the Sun

SECTION: NEW YORK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 529 words


As a group, more New York hospitals appear in more of U.S. News & World Report's
upcoming "America's Best Hospitals" specialty lists than institutions in any
other city nationwide.

Ten New York City hospitals are featured in this year's rankings to be published
in the July 23 edition.

Among them, New York-Presbyterian Hospital is sixth on the magazine's "Honor
Roll" of the country's 18 best hospitals overall. The top hospital was Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. For its 2007 rankings, the magazine screened
5,642 hospitals and medical centers, and graded 173 institutions in 16
specialties that include cancer, geriatrics, heart and heart surgery, and
ophthalmology.

The Hospital for Special Surgery came in first in the orthopedics category, and
Mount Sinai Medical Center is ranked third in geriatric care. New
York-Presbyterian is ranked in each of the 16 specialties, and appears in the
top 5 in five specialties, including gynecology, endocrinology, kidney disease,
neurology and neurosurgery, and psychiatry.

The editor of U.S. News's "America's Best Hospitals" for 2007, Avery Comarow,
attributed the presence of 10 New York institutions on the list to the
prevalence of excellent universities and medical schools in the area. "There is
a culture at these hospitals that amounts to a mission statement: 'We won't
tolerate low standards and we'll put patients first,'" he said.

Overall, Mr. Comarow said there is increasing competition among hospitals to
improve patient care. "We keep raising the bar, and the hospitals that make the
ranking tend to be those hospitals that set that standard," he said. "There's a
constant upward evolution. Some of it is driven by technology, some of it is
driven by the bottom line, some of it is driven by marketing, and that's okay if
the results are good for patients."

Reached yesterday by telephone, the president and CEO of New York-Presbyterian,
Herbert Pardes, said, "Well, we're happy." He cited the recruitment of top
doctors, investments in technology, and efforts to improve comprehensive care
and patient satisfaction as driving forces behind the hospital's appearance on
the magazine's Honor Roll.

Last month, in data released by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services,
New York-Presbyterian was the only hospital in the New York City area to rank
"better than the national average" for mortality rates among heart attack
patients.

"At the end of the day, I want you to be healthy and never need us," Dr. Pardes
said. "But if you do," he said, using a music metaphor to refer to his medical
staff, "I want you to have an orchestra in which every one of the instruments
plays well."

This year, Lenox Hill Hospital ranked 15th in the heart and heart surgery
specialty after not featuring at all in last year's rankings. "This underscores
the ongoing commitment of our physicians and staff," a spokeswoman for the
hospital said. Lenox Hill had been listed in the heart category in 2003 and
2004.

Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, which has alternated in the top slot in
the cancer specialty with University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in
Houston in recent years, moved to the no. 2 from no. 1 last year.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register(Springfield, IL)

                           December 12, 2000 Tuesday

Company: St. John's among top 100 facilities in country ;
 Recognized for stroke, orthopedic health care

BYLINE: TONY CAPPASSO STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 476 words


A company that assesses health-care quality ranks St. John's Hospital among the
top 100 hospitals nationwide in treating orthopedic problems and stroke.

The Springfield hospital made the top 100 based on comparison of cost and other
criteria in the treatment of these patients, according to the Web site,
www.100TopHospitals.com, which is run by the health-care quality assessment firm
HCIA-Sachs.

St. John's also ended up among the top medical centers that offer orthopedic
surgery residency training, where would-be orthopedic surgeons learn the ropes
of the specialty.

Only 15 hospitals that offer such training made the top-100 list nationwide and
only one hospital in Illinois other than St. John's, Evanston Northwestern
Hospital, earned the ranking.

To produce the orthopedic rankings, HCIA-Sachs experts compared care at 1,200
hospitals across the United States by looking at the medical records of more
than 700,000 Medicare patients.

They compared outcomes for patients who had one of four types of orthopedic
surgery: total knee replacement, total hip replacement, partial hip replacement
and open reduction of a hip fracture with a procedure called "internal fixation
of the femoral neck."

HCIA-Sachs ranked hospitals based on how much the procedures cost, how long
patients were hospitalized, mortality and complications and the percentage of
patients that doctors discharged home, according to a press release.

To make it into the survey, a hospital had to have at least 200 patient cases
and at least 30 cases in each of the different surgical procedures. St. John's
treats more than 4,000 orthopedic cases each year, hospital statistics indicate.

Achieving the ranking is the culmination of a decade of effort, said St. John's
Hospital chairman of orthopedics Dr. Dan Adair, an orthopedic surgeon at
Springfield Clinic.

"This award is the capstone of a more-than-10-year quality improvement and cost
containment effort," Adair said in a written statement.

In the stroke rankings, HCIA- Sachs compared outcomes for patients treated for
ischemic strokes, the most common type, using basically the same criteria as in
the orthopedic rankings.

St. John's scored among the top 100 hospitals that have neurology specialty
training programs.

Neurologists - doctors who specialize in diseases of the brain and nervous
system - often treat patients who have had strokes, which happen when something
interferes with blood flow to the brain.

Only 17 hospitals nationwide achieved top-100 status in both orthopedics and
stroke treatment, according to HCIA-Sachs spokeswoman Kerry Lydon-Minton.

HCIA- Sachs evaluated hospitals based on both clinical and economic data, Lydon-
Minton said. How much it cost to provide care was as influential in placing a
hospital in the top 100 as how good the care was, she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ON WEB SITE

                   Copyright 2000 The State Journal-Register

                              288 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 13, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Mayo Clinic Children's Center Ranks in All 10 Specialties for Third Straight
Year in Best Children's Hospital Rankings

LENGTH: 364  words


New Delhi, June 13 -- Mayo Clinic Children's Center has again been ranked in all
10 pediatric specialties in U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best Children's
Hospitals rankings. Each year, U.S. News & World Report, using an extensive
survey and input from pediatric specialists from around the country, ranks
nearly 200 of the nation's children's hospitals and identifies only the top 50
in each of 10 specialty areas. This is the third year in a row that the Mayo
Clinic Children's Center has been the only Minnesota hospital to rank in all 10
specialties. In fact, the Mayo Clinic Children's Center is the only children's
hospital not only in Minnesota but also the surrounding states of Wisconsin,
Iowa and the Dakotas to rank in each of the specialties included in the survey:
cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.



"At the Mayo Clinic Children's Center, we take great pride in our ability to
quickly and efficiently provide high-quality integrated care to children with
routine or very challenging conditions, whether they come from around the state,
the region or the world," says hospital director, Randall Flick, M.D., M.P.H.

The Mayo Clinic Children's Center provides comprehensive, coordinated care to
children with many types of health concerns, including the innovative treatments
for congenital heart disease, fetal surgery, robotic surgery and comprehensive
transplant services, many of which are available nowhere else in the state or
region. The Mayo Clinic Children's Center was also the first children's hospital
in the state to offer Level One trauma care.

"Our ranking among the top children's hospitals in all 10 specialties speaks to
our unique capacity to assemble teams of specialists of all types at the bedside
of any child from before they are born, throughout childhood, adolescence and
seamlessly transition into adult care," says Dr. Flick.

Mayo Clinic and its children's center is the medical center most recognized as a
top choice for patients and families by U.S. News & World Report and many other
ranking organizations.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                            September 1, 2014 Monday

Hospital food put to the test

BYLINE: Elizabeth Mackley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 339 words


THE Great Western Hospital will now be judged on its food as the NHS introduces
mandatory standards across the country.

For the first time, hospitals will be ranked on the NHS Choices website for the
quality of their food, the choice available and the cost per day of providing
meals.

The latest rankings put the GWH ahead of others, with the quality of its food
rated at 90.27 per cent and the choice at 77.44 per cent.

Maria Moore, deputy chief executive and director of finance for Great Western
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, said: "Food and drink in hospital is an
essential part of the health, wellbeing and recovery of our patients, and at
both Great Western Hospital and in our Wiltshire community hospitals we work
hard to provide healthy, nutritious and appetising options for patients.

"These new food rankings for hospitals provide an open and transparent picture
of hospital food for patients, families and members of the public.

"The data on NHS Choices comes from the latest PLACE scores. Introduced last
year, they assess non-clinical aspects of patient care including food and
nutrition.

"Recent PLACE results have identified improvement has been made in the quality
of food provided to patients at GWH, which is pleasing. However, we know there
are other areas such as food choice and patient meal options where significant
improvements are needed.

"We have a Nutritional Working Group, made up of staff from a variety of roles
including dietitians and senior nurses, which regularly monitors and tests the
food served to patients both at GWH and in our community hospitals."

The new ranking system will be brought in as part of five new, legally-binding
standards, which hospitals will have to comply with.

They include screening patients for malnutrition, which the GWH already carries
out, and a food plan for each patient.

Hospitals will also have to take steps to ensure patients get the help they need
to eat and drink, canteens will have to promote healthy diets for staff and
visitors and food must be sourced sustainably.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday
                               TUE FINAL Edition

Children's Hospital named sixth-best

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 94 words


Children's Hospital of Colorado in Aurora has been ranked sixth in the U.S. News
& World Report's Best Children's Hospitals honor roll for 2014 15.

The rankings, which were based on survival rates, adequacy of nursing staff and
procedure volume, analyzed the performance of hundreds of hospitals nationwide
in 10 specialties. Of the 89 hospitals ranked in the specialties, just 10 were
chosen for the honor roll.

The rankings are aimed to best guide families of children with life threatening
or rare conditions to the best medical care available, the publisher said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota Ranked Again as Top Pediatric
Hospital in the Nation by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 216  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Once again, Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota
has been recognized as one of the best children's hospitals in the country in
U.S. News and World Report's 2012-2013 Best Children's Hospitals rankings.

For the sixth consecutive year, Children's was ranked in neonatology, for the
care that it provides to the youngest and most fragile patients. Children's has
been ranked in this category since U.S. News began ranking pediatric hospitals
in 2007. For the second consecutive year, Children's was ranked in cardiology
and heart surgery, a program that is one of the largest in the region by patient
volume.

"Children's is honored to be recognized again by U.S. News. The listing is a
tribute to our skilled and dedicated staff, who are deeply committed to
providing children with the best possible care," said Alan L. Goldbloom, MD,
president and CEO of Children's.

The rankings feature 50 hospitals in each of 10 pediatric specialties: cancer,
cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology,
neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology,
and urology. Eighty hospitals across the country were recognized in one or more
specialties.

For the full rankings and methodology, visit www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday

Primary Children's among best hospitals

LENGTH: 145 words


The U.S. News and Word Report ranked Primary Children's Medical Center 18th in
its "America's Best Children's Hospitals" category. The ranking considers
reputation, death rate and other factors. This is the first year the magazine
has ranked children's hospitals.

The Salt Lake hospital received the highest score relative to death rates,
meaning it had the lowest mortality rates during procedures than any other
children's hospital. Some of the procedures the magazine considered included
heart and neurosurgery procedures, as well as bone marrow transplants. The
scores based on reputation came from a survey of 100 pediatricians, adolescent
medical specialists and neonatologists.

The magazine included 30 hospitals in the ranking. The top three hospitals were
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Children's Hospital Boston and Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              293 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday

Bibek Koirala joins Reliant med team

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 397 words


COLUMN: MEDICAL MEMOS

Reliant Medical Group announced the addition of Dr. Bibek Koirala to its medical
team. Dr. Koirala, an internist, will practice in Reliant Medical Group's
Department of Hospital Medicine at Worcester Medical Center (St. Vincent
Hospital).

He received his medical degree from Tribhuvan University in Kathmandu, Nepal. He
completed his internship and residency at Staten Island University Hospital in
Staten Island, N.Y. He is a candidate for certification from the American Board
of Internal Medicine.

UMass Memorial Medical Center has received 3-star rankings from the prestigious
Society of Thoracic Surgeons for two cardiac surgery procedures: coronary artery
bypass surgery

and aortic valve replacement surgery. Three stars is the highest quality ranking
given by STS. It is the sixth year in a row that UMass Memorial has received the
award for CABG surgery; the AVR ratings were released for the first time this
May. These are the only two surgeries that are currently rated by STS.

Only 3.2 percent of the 968 cardiac surgery programs nationwide earned the
3-star designation for AVR. The first release of the AVR data was done with
results from 2009 to 2011. The programs were evaluated based on patient
outcomes, number of deaths and complications.

Since 2006, when the first rankings were released by STS, the Cardiac Surgery
Program has consistently received the 3-star designation for CABG, achieved by
only 14 percent of hospitals nationwide.

The UMass Memorial program also had the lowest infection rates in Massachusetts
for CABG surgeries according to the most recent report from the Massachusetts
Department of Public Health.

With this latest ranking and others, the UMass Memorial Cardiac Surgery Program
remains a national leader in providing the highest quality care and services to
patients and their families.

UMass Memorial Health Care's Ronald McDonald Care Mobile provides medical and
dental services to people without health or dental insurance. The Care Mobile
will be providing services on Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 9 a.m. to 3
p.m. at the Worcester Department of Public Health at 25 Meade St. in Worcester.

For more information or to make an appointment, call (508) 334-6073. If you need
medical or dental insurance, call (508) 334-9300.

Send information for Medical Memos to submissions@telegram.com

ART: PHOTO

CUTLINE: Dr. Koirala

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reliant Medical Group announced the addition of Dr. Bibek Koirala to
its medical team. Dr. Koirala, an internist, will practice in Reliant Medical
Group's Department of Hospital Medicine at Worcester Medical Center (St. Vincent
Hospital). He received his medical degree from Tribhuvan University in
Kathmandu, Nepal. He completed his internship and residency at Staten Island
University Hospital in Staten Island, N.Y. He is a candidate for certification
from the American Board of Internal Medicine.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                              June 5, 2012 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Cream of the crop

BYLINE: BY HEIDI EVANS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 455 words


New York-Presbyterian's children's hospital has been rated tops in the city for
pediatrics, getting high marks in nine of 10 medical specialties, according to
the latest U.S. News & World Report rankings.

The Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital was among nine New York area
hospitals that made the grade for at least one specialty in the annual survey
released Tuesday.

None of the city's 11 public hospitals were singled out for excellence in any
specialties.

Although Morgan Stanley-Komansky fell off U.S. News' national honor roll this
year, hospital CEO Dr. Steve Corwin said it was great to be No. 1 in the city.

"Aside from the ranking, a region needs a great place where tough cases can go.
We are able to do that for the public good in a great city," Corwin said.

Mount Sinai's Kravis Children's Hospital on the upper East Side saw its standing
improve, ranked outstanding in six specialties.

Sinai's CEO and president, Dr. Kenneth Davis, noted that two specialties not
ranked last year made the grade this time around - cancer and urology - and
credited the recruitment of top-flight doctors and researchers.

Two other hospitals in the five boroughs were on the list: Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, for cancer, and the Children's Hospital at
Montefiore, which went from being recognized in 10 specialities last year to
four this time.

Dr. Philip Ozuah, Montefiore's chief operating officer and chief of pediatrics,
blamed the survey methods.

"The methodology for the rankings changes from year to year and that can impact
results, but our programs continue to excel in the results that matter most,
providing excellent patient care," he said.

"We are proud to be consistently ranked as a top hospital by U.S. News & World
Report."

Outside the city, children's hospitals that were recognized in more than one
specialty include Long Island's Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical
Center at North Shore-LIJ, Winthrop-University Hospital and New Jersey's Robert
Wood Johnson University Hospital.

The magazine also put out an "honor roll" of the best children's hospitals in
the country, with Children's Hospital Boston and Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia tying for first place.

New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley-Komansky was eighth last year but was
pushed off this year.

"We are disappointed because we believe we are one of the top hospitals in the
country, but at the end of the day it's about caring for children, not a number
on a ranking sheet," said Corwin.

He said turnover in the urology department may have been to blame for the
dropout.

"We just recruited a new chief from Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and a
former trainee from there," Corwin noted. "I think that it will turn itself
around."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Steven J. Corwin (near r.) and Dr. Kenneth L. Davis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Daily News, L.P.

                              295 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

CPSI Highest Rated EHR Vendor for Fifth Consecutive Year; Eligible Providers
Successfully Attest for Meaningful Use Stage 2

LENGTH: 318  words


March 19 -- CPSI (NASDAQ: CPSI), a leading provider of electronic health record
(EHR) systems and services, today announced that it has been recognized as the
top ranked inpatient EHR vendor for hospitals under 100 beds by Black Book
Rankings. This is the fifth consecutive year CPSI has been recognized as the top
overall EHR vendor for small and rural hospitals under 100 beds and critical
access hospitals.

"We are very proud to again be recognized by Black Book Rankings," said Boyd
Douglas, President and Chief Executive Officer of CPSI. "Our place at the top of
these independent rankings for five years in a row is confirmation from our
clients that our system and support have continued to fully meet their needs
during this transitional period in healthcare IT. The top of the Black Book
rankings in conjunction with our industry leading 2014 Stage 2 Meaningful Use
(MU) attestations clearly supports CPSI's position as the leading EHR vendor for
rural and community hospitals."

CPSI also announced that providers using the company's Medical Practice EHR
platform have successfully attested to MU Stage 2. This announcement comes on
the heels of the most recent Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services report of
EHR Products used for MU in which CPSI leads all vendors in successful MU Stage
attestations for the Complete EHR/Inpatient/Hospital designation. Douglas
commented, "Many of our rural and community hospital clients own or manage their
physician practices. Therefore, having a single vendor integrated solution to
address both care settings offers them significant advantages in the delivery of
patient care as well as operational efficiencies. With the successful
attestation to MU Stage 2 by physicians using our ambulatory EHR product, our
customers can be confident they will receive not only the inherent benefits of a
single vendor solution but the financial ones as well."

Source: CPSI

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Johns Hopkins slips to No. 4 in magazine's hospital ratings

BYLINE: Andrea McDaniels

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 275  words


The Johns Hopkins Hospital fell a notch to fourth place in the nation in
rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News and World Report, an important assessment
in which the Baltimore hospital ranked for years in first place.

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., ranked number one this year, followed by
the Cleveland Clinic and Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

Hopkins began slipping in the rankings in 2012, when the magazine changed its
methodology to put less emphasis on reputation. The change ended Hopkins'
21-year run at the top spot.

The Baltimore hospital remained ranked No. 1 in the magazine's comparison of
Maryland hospitals. Ten specialties at the hospital ranked among the top five in
the nation and 14 specialties in the top 10.

"The Johns Hopkins Hospital's record as a U.S. News & World Report Best Hospital
over the past 27 years is unparalleled," Dr. Paul B. Rothman, dean of the
medical faculty and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine, and Ronald R. Peterson,
president of the Johns Hopkins Health System and executive vice president of
Johns Hopkins Medicine, wrote in a note to employees.

"It is thanks to our employees that Johns Hopkins' legacy of clinical excellence
and patient- and family-centered care continues to flourish," they wrote.

The hospital earned the highest ranking for 22 years, including an unprecedented
21 years in a row from 1991 to 2011.

Rothman and Peterson also congratulated the Mayo Clinic.

"We are honored to be among all the hospitals that made the list and, like us,
continue to improve care for the people in our local communities and around the
world," they said.

amcdaniels@baltsun.com

Twitter.com/ankwalker

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

SMH tops region in ranking | Annual U.S. News "Best Hospitals" list is closely
watched in the health care industry | Annual U.S. News 'Best | Hospitals'
publication | is closely watched in | health care industry

BYLINE: Staff Report

SECTION: B; FL News; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 281 words


Sarasota Memorial Hospital was recognized Tuesday in the annual U.S. News "Best
Hospitals" report as the eighth-best acute health care facility in Florida, and
cited for high performance nationally in gastroenterology and gastrointestinal
surgery.

It was also listed as "top performing" in all nine common procedures and
conditions evaluated by the report: colon cancer surgery, lung cancer surgery,
COPD, heart failure, heart bypass surgery, aortic valve surgery, abdominal
aortic aneurysm repair, and knee and hip replacements. That makes it one of only
48 hospitals out of 4,500 in the United States to achieve this overall high
quality, and one of four in the state. The others are Florida Hospital in
Orlando, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville and Orlando Regional Medical Center.

This year's ranking is a slight slip from the 2016 report, which put Sarasota
Memorial at No. 7 in the state. No Florida facility made the publication's
"honor roll" of the top 20 hospitals, and only one of those - at Duke University
in North Carolina - was in the Southeast.

Other Southwest Florida hospitals did not make U.S. News' ranking of 35 top
hospitals in the state. But three were listed as high performing in one or more
treatments: Blake Medical Center in Bradenton in colon cancer surgery and hip
replacement; Doctors Hospital of Sarasota in knee replacement and Fawcett
Memorial Hospital in Port Charlotte in heart failure.

Of the many national hospital rating systems that analyze the same data - mostly
self-reported by hospitals to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services -
the U.S. News report is considered one of the most reputable because of its lack
of ties to the health care industry.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sarasota Memorial Hospital. [PROVIDED BY Sarasota Memorial Hospital /
AUGUST 2017]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Hospitals in Whittier, Pasadena score big on patient survey

BYLINE: By Daniel Tedford, Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 717 words


New rankings released by Consumer Reports reviewing patient satisfaction has two
San Gabriel Valley hospitals in the top 10 out of 145 southern California
hospitals.

At the same time, two area hospitals rank at the bottom of the list, according
to the rankings.



Compared to other hospitals in Ventura, San Diego, San Bernardino, Riverside,
Orange and Los Angeles Counties, Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in
Whittier ranked fourth with an 83 consumer rating -- first overall in Los
Angeles County. Huntington Memorial Hospital ranked sixth in southern
California.

"I think it is the hospital culture. We have a good working relationship with
all of our team," Chief Nursing officer Reanna Thompson said. "We listen to
their feedback. I think giving the people at the front line a voice on things
that need to be done ... is really the key to having an engaged work force. The
patients sense that."

The Southern California top five were:
1. Thousand Oaks Surgical Hospital, Thousand Oaks
2. Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian, Newport Beach
3. Bear Valley Community Hospital, Big Bear
4. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital, Whittier
5. Scripps Green Hospital, La Jolla

Despite being a well-known hospital that many people choose, Huntington
officials are still pleased to see such results. The facility has the only
trauma center at a community hospital in the San Gabriel Valley, so keeping
patient satisfaction isn't easy, volunter and customer services director
Priscilla Gamb said.

"It is a challenge (to maintain patient satisfaction)," she said. "Every
department has specific service goals that they work on throughout the entire
year. It is a hospital wide effort."

The rankings are based on a quarterly federal survey of more than one million
hospital patients across the nation, the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems, or HCAHPS.

The survey asks patients about recent hospital experiences regarding doctor and
nurse communication, cleanliness and noise in hospital rooms, and discharge
information and medication.

Consumer Reports took the data and had statisticians put it into a ranking.

East Valley Hospital in Glendora was the third worst in southern California and
Whittier Hospital Medical Center was the sixth worst, according to the rankings.


East Valley Hospital did not immediately return messages seeking comment.

At Whittier Hospital Medical Center, officials believe reviews are going to
change.

The proper nursing leadership wasn't in place in the past, but with a new Chief
Nursing Officer since August 2008, the culture of the hospital is improving, CEO
Howard Ternes said.

"I will be honest with you. This hospital has suffered for several years,"
Ternes said. "We haven't had a strong nurse leader in 10 years until we hired
Phyllis (Snyder)."

Since she came on, Snyder has tried to address trouble areas, specifically
communication between nurses and patients, Ternes said.

"It becomes routine after a while. We don't realize there is a gap between what
the patient expects and what we expect," Ternes said. "If you improve the
communication with patients, problems get solved automatically."

Issues with information regarding medication and discharge was a problem for
most hospitals across the nation and in Los Angeles County, Consumer Reports
Senior Program Editor Nancy Metcalf said.

"(Hospital staffers) are constantly giving you a shot, or something in an IV, or
giving you a pill, or all of the above," Metcalf said. "The lack of
communication around that was richly reflected."

The federal survey takes into account some demographic information and whether
or not patients at one hospital are more sick over another, Metcalf said.

Consumer Reports didn't do any analysis on specific trends, but members of the
media have been telling Metcalf that hospitals in poorer neighborhoods have a
tendency to score lower on the survey, she said.

Also, specialty hospitals tend to score higher than others, Metcalf said.
Patients at those hospitals tend to have better insurance and are there for
elective surgery, versus being admitted for emergency services.

"What we find is that being admitted through the emergency room automatically
gives you a worse experience," Metcalf said. "Hospitals that don't have those
kinds of patients already start with an advantage."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                             April 13, 2014 Sunday

business briefs

BYLINE: Telegraph Herald

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 291 words


Mercy Medical Center-Dubuque received a Blue Distinction Center Plus designation
for cardiac care and hip and knee replacement from Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue
Shield. Blue Distinction Centers are shown to deliver quality specialty care
based on objective, transparent measures for patient safety and health outcomes
and have a proven track-record for delivering better results - including fewer
complications and readmissions - than hospitals without this recognition.

*

Consumer Reports has released patient safety rankings provided by Becker's
Hospital Review for more than 2,500 hospitals. The rankings are based on a
composite score between 1 and 100 of five quality measures using data from the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention. The measures include mortality, admissions, overuse of imaging,
health care-associated infections and communication, according to a Medscape
report on the rankings. UnityPoint Health-Finley Hospital was ranked as one of
the top 15 hospitals.

*

DuTrac Community Credit Union ranks in the top 1 percent of all credit unions in
terms of total return of the member as of Dec. 31, 2013, according to Callahan &
Associates, which recently released its credit union rankings.

The return of the member index is able to demonstrate a member's relationship
with the credit union while focusing on the main functionalities of savings,
lending and product usage. Based on their analysis, Callahan & Associates
calculated how well DuTrac's ROM was in the three categories in comparison to
other credit unions across the United States. Callahan & Associates is a
25-year-old national firm that provides analytics and analysis for credit union
performance.

Telegraph Herald

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 16, 2010 Friday

Mayo No. 2 again in U.S. News and World Report rankings

BYLINE: Jeff Hansel, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 566 words


July 16--Mayo Clinic in Rochester has once again been named the second-best
hospital in the country.

Johns Hopkins Hopsital in Baltimore, Md. has for 20 years held its No. 1
position and continues that streak in the 2010-2011 ranking by U.S. News & World
Report.

"For 2010-11 we analyzed 4,852 hospitals, virtually every one in the United
States, in 16 specialties from cancer and heart disease to respiratory disorders
and urology," the magazine reports.

Only 152 centers placed among the 16 specialty rankings. Fourteen "Honor Roll"
hospitals had very high scores in six or more specialties.

Mayo was named among the top 10 hospitals in the country in 14 different
specialties. Separate from Mayo in Rochester, the Mayo campuses in both Arizona
and in Florida also made the list.

The Mayo hospital in Jacksonville, Fla., was ranked 40th in gastroenterology and
44th in neurology and neurosurgery.

Mayo Clinic Hospital in Phoenix ranked 26th in gastroenterology, 37th in kidney
disorders and 45th in diabetes and endocrinology.

As in past years, Mayo bested Johns Hopkins in some specialties. Mayo was ranked
as the best hospital in the country for diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology and in kidney disorders.

The top five hospitals in 2010-2011 in the United States in order, according to
U.S. News & World Report:

1. Johns Hopkins in Baltimore.

2. Mayo Clinic in Rochester.

3. Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

4. Cleveland Clinic in Ohio.

5. Ronald Reagon UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles

The magazine says 83 percent of Rochester patients who sought care at Mayo said
they would recommend the clinic's hospitals (Saint Marys Hospital, Rochester
Methodist Hospital or Mayo Eugenio Litta Children's Hospital) to friends and
family.

Only 2 percent said they would "definitely not" recommend Mayo. The state
average in Minnesota for "definitely not" was 3 percent ,and the national
average was 6 percent.

U.S. News points out that even the best hospitals in the country make mistakes.

"No matter how skilled or deep their expertise, even "best hospitals" don't do
everything right," the magazine reports. But when specialty care is needed,
these top hospitals are the ones people seek out.

Mayo in Rochester also ranked high in pediatric care (13th in pediatric
neurology and neurosurgery, 16th in pediatric heart and heart surgery, 16th in
pediatric orthopedics, 17th in pediatric diabetes and endocrinology, 18th in
pediatric urology, 21st in pediatric kidney disorders, and 24th in pediatric
gastroenterology).

Although Olmsted Medical Center in Rochester did not make the list, it was
reviewed. U.S. News says 82 percent of OMC patients say they would definitely
recommend the hospital to friends and family. The state average of people who
said that was 71 percent -- and the national average only 68 percent.

Health reporter Jeff Hansel (285-7615) writes a blog Pulse on Health at
www.postbulletin.com. Follow him on Twitter @JeffHansel

To see more of the Post-Bulletin, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.postbulletin.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100716-RC-Mayo-No-2-again-in-U-S-News-World-Report-rankings-20100716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2010 Post-Bulletin

                              301 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           October 15, 2008 Wednesday

HealthGrades recognizes Finley

BYLINE: ERIK HOGSTROM TH staff writer/ehogstrom@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 267 words


The health-care ratings company HealthGrades has given The Finley Hospital top
marks. HealthGrades, a health-care ratings company, ranked Finley Iowa's top
hospital for general surgery.

"To be the No. 1 hospital in the state of Iowa is definitely an accomplishment,"
said Kim Fortner, a consultant for provider services for HealthGrades. Finley's
ranking was included in the 11th annual HealthGrades Hospital Quality in America
study. The study also gave Finley the highest five-star rating for
appendectomies. "Finley has been noted for quality and success before by
HealthGrades, but this award was notable because of the ranking of No. 1 in Iowa
for general surgery," said John Knox, Finley's president and chief executive
officer. "The No. 1 in Iowa ranking is arrived at by close scrutiny to outcome
details. It is an award that reflects the quality in the surgery department and
the surgical groups that perform at Finley." HealthGrades analyzed more than 41
million Medicare hospitalization records from 2005 to 2007 at the approximately
5,000 nonfederal hospitals in the U.S. The general surgery ranking is based on
ratings for bowel obstruction, appendectomy and cholecystectomy procedures.
Cholecystectomy is the surgical removal of the gallbladder. "The conditions that
make such a distinction possible relate to the attention paid by our surgical
staff and physicians to safety," Knox said. "We continue to implement measures
that have helped us lower complications and provide better outcomes. We are
always looking for the best practices in our field and implement them as soon as
possible."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 12, 2003, Monday

Measuring up

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 641 words


Targets can damage your health. The Times reports today that the Government's
system of ranking hospitals is seriously flawed, with some top-ranked hospital
trusts having unnervingly high mortality rates and waiting times. While
measuring the performance of such complex organisations is extremely difficult,
it is quite wrong for ministers to judge hospitals primarily against political
targets, rather than clinical outcomes. If some second-rate hospitals are being
held up as models for others to follow, this is dangerously misleading as well
as grossly unfair, and will only set back the cause of NHS reform.

League tables for hospitals, like those for schools, are a sensible element of
the drive to raise standards. But their very public nature, and the extra money
and freedom that a high ranking can bring, make it vitally important to measure
what matters as accurately as possible. What is being measured when "three star"
status is given to the hospital trust in Walsall that has the highest mortality
rates in the country? Here, the difference between top and bottom is
significant: put crudely, a patient is twice as likely to die in Walsall as in
Barts. This cannot be accounted for simply by the fact that certain hospitals
are treating older, riskier patients. Barts and University College London, which
have the lowest mortality rates in the country, are teaching hospitals treating
their fair share of high risk patients. And the organisation that ranks
hospitals by mortality rates, the Dr Foster unit at Imperial College, London,
standardises as far as possible to take account of such factors.

Mortality is not the only issue. Fewer than ten of the 30 criteria used in the
NHS Performance Rankings actually attempt to judge how a hospital affects
patient health. Of the rest, too many are targets for waiting times or surveys
of staff and patient opinion, which are interesting but unlikely to be
conclusive. In order to be considered for a "three-star" ranking, hospitals have
to perform well on nine targets, all of which are managerial, such as "improving
working lives" and hospital cleanliness. It is only after meeting those that
clinical measures such as readmisssion are taken into account, and even these
look only at a small proportion of deaths - from heart bypass or non-elective
surgery.

These problems are an inevitable consequence of centralisation and bureaucracy.

The truth is that NHS services are already distorted to meet political targets.

(You get what you target - if you're lucky). Many of the hospitals with three
star rankings may have excellent clinical staff, but they are also very good at
managing to meet the targets, which is not the same thing. Many of those
hospitals that score well on dealing with outpatients in less than 26 weeks (the
NHS rating) do much less well against the 13-week target used by Dr Foster. But
if the Government moved the goal posts, the hospitals would change their
priorities.

In formulating their formulas, ministers have enormous influence over life and
death. We now routinely expect hospital managers to fiddle their waiting lists,
for example. Managers who prefer to be economical with the truth than to upset
Whitehall have good reason: the few who have dared to expose such practices are
regarded by government with deep suspicion and hostility. So most prefer to
wheel out the old saying of the Chinese Communists: "The situation is
excellent".

The need for targets, and the difficulty of formulating absolutely precise
targets, is indisputable. But seemingly scientific indicators can be motivated
more by policy than precision. The Government must review its targets and be
prepared to face the embarrassment of unfavourable outcomes in the short term.

These targets are now, literally, a matter of life and death.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Hershey Med among best in ear, nose, throat care

BYLINE: By, Staff report

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 195 words


U.S. News & World Report has recognized Penn State Health Milton S. Hershey
Medical Center as one of the best hospitals for 2016-17 in ear, nose and throat
care.

The medical center was also recognized as "high performing" in seven additional
treatment areas: cancer, gastroenterology and GI surgery, nephrology, neurology
and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates, adequacy of nurse staffing and more.

For 2016-17, 153 hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628
received a high performing rating in one or more specialties, procedures or
conditions. In rankings by state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals
that were high-performing across multiple areas of care.

The rankings are published in the U.S. News "Best Hospitals 2017" guidebook. For
more information, visit the U.S. News Best Hospitals website.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Williamson Daily News, W.Va.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

Pikeville Medical Center earns new accolade

BYLINE: Terry L. May, Williamson Daily News, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words


July 27--PIKEVILLE, Ky. -- The Pikeville Medical Center has been racking up
award after award within the past few years and hospital officials announced
yesterday the facility has won yet another national honor.

According to Walter E. May, PMC president and chief executive officer, the
facility has been named in US News and World Report's 2010-11 Best Hospitals
list.

According to the magazine, 152 hospitals in the country made the list. Slightly
under 5,000 hospitals -- which the magazine claims is "virtually every hospital
in the country" -- were evaluated using specific criteria that included areas
ranking in medical specialties, death rates, quality of care, technology,
nursing care and patient safety. This is the 21st year US News and World Report
has published the list.

"We are proud to be included in this prestigious award," May said. "We did not
apply for this award."

He said the magazine reviews hospitals using data provided to other sources to
create an ranking independent of hospital input.

"Accolades are important," May continued. "But, we cannot rest on our laurels --
we've only just begun."

The hospital has been named as the 2009-2010 National Hopspital of the Year by
the American Alliance of Healthcare Providers, one of the best places to work by
Modern Healthcare and has repeatedly won recognition as one of Kentucky's best
workplaces. Level 3 (highest ranking)Accredited Chest Pain Center,

"Our future is dependent on the leadership of this hospital -- it is the largest
employer in the county," said Wayne T. Rutherford, Pike County judge-executive,
"Pikeville Medical Center deserves all the awards it has received and (the
staff) are to be commended on your courage of heart for the work you do every
day."

To see more of the Williamson Daily News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.williamsondailynews.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Williamson Daily
News, W.Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100727-UX-Pikeville-Medical-Center-earns-new-accolade-20100727

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UX


                                 Copyright 2010

                              305 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday

U.S. News & World Report: MUSC is state's No. 1 hospital

LENGTH: 538  words

DATELINE: Charleston


Medical University of South Carolina has issued the following news release:

MUSC was named by U.S. News & World Report as one of the country's best
hospitals in the treatment of ear, nose and throat disorders, nephrology, and
rheumatology.

MUSC was also categorized as a "high-performing" facility for the treatment of
cancer, gynecologic disorders, orthopedics and cardiology and heart surgery.
Programs for diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology, neurology and
neurosurgery, pulmonology, geriatrics and urology also were considered high
performing.

Richard M. Silver, M.D., who has been director of the MUSC Division of
Rheumatology and Immunology since 1995, was pleased his division was recognized
as one of the nation's leading rheumatology centers.

"Rankings for rheumatology are based solely on reputation, and such recognition
demonstrates the high regard our peers have for the patient care and expertise
in rheumatology provided at MUSC," Silver said. "We are particularly well known
for the exemplary care and research in autoimmune connective tissue diseases,
e.g., scleroderma and lupus. We are a tertiary care center for the most complex
and severe rheumatic disease patients. Our staff provides cutting edge
diagnostic and therapeutic services to patients of all ages - children and
adults - from all areas of South Carolina and beyond."

Fewer than 150 of the nation's 5,000 hospitals are nationally ranked in at least
one of 16 medical specialties.

MUSC ranked first in South Carolina and for the Charleston-North
Charleston-Summerville metro area. The state and local rankings recognize more
than 700 hospitals with a record of high performance in key medical specialties,
including hospitals already identified as the best in the nation.

"We are gratified that MUSC continues to be recognized as a leading hospital in
South Carolina and beyond," said Ray Greenberg, M.D., Ph.D., MUSC president.
"This is a great tribute to our outstanding faculty and staff who are among the
best in the country."

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face a particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

"The recognition as South Carolina's No. 1 hospital is particularly gratifying
for the dedicated teams of physicians and staff who provide high quality care
every day, but also teach the next generation, and test new discoveries. This is
further evidence of MUSC's focus on expertise and excellence through high
performance teamwork," said Patrick Cawley, M.D., MUSC executive director/CEO
and vice president for clinical operations.


For more information please visit: http://academicdepartments.musc.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

Cleveland Clinic adds to honors in latest report

BYLINE: By Brie Zeltner

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 410 words


For the 18th year running, the Cleveland Clinic has been named the nation's No.
1 heart care program in the annual U.S. News & World Report list of best
hospitals.

And the hospital system has two new reasons to boast this year: It is tops in
the nation in the areas of urology and nephrology (kidney diseases), too.

"Honestly I was expecting this (for both specialties), and they deserve what
they've accomplished," said Clinic Chief Executive Dr. Toby Cosgrove. The two
programs are merged in the Clinic's Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute.
"What they've been doing is leading-edge, and they've grown to one of the
largest departments in the country."

The rankings provide a GPS-type tool to point patients toward hospitals with
skill in treating difficult medical conditions, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor
Avery Comarow said.

"All of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your
list when you need the best care," he said. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

"You have to be a fairly sophisticated tertiary care center to be able to get
into these rankings," said University Hospitals President Dr. Fred Rothstein.

UH ranked in the top 50 programs nationally for 12 of 16 specialties, up from 11
programs in 2011. Their new rankings are: cancer (18); cardiology and heart
surgery (29); diabetes and endocrinology (38); ear, nose and throat (19);
gastroenterology (14); geriatrics (27); gynecology (27); nephrology (31);
neurology and neurosurgery (28); orthopedics (20); pulmonology (38); and urology
(40).

"I think this underscores what our commitment has been to this community," said
Rothstein.

Other Cleveland area hospitals received recognition in the annual listing as
well. MetroHealth Medical Center was ranked 41st nationally in pulmonology and
Akron General hospital was ranked 49th in ear, nose and throat.

The Clinic has 14 nationally ranked programs, including 12 in the top five:
cardiology and heart surgery (1); diabetes and endocrinology (2); ear, nose and
throat (2); gastroenterology (2); geriatrics (4); gynecology (3); nephrology
(1); neurology and neurosurgery (5); orthopedics (3); pulmonology (3);
rheumatology (2); and urology (1).

Overall the Cleveland Clinic was ranked fourth nationally for U.S. hospitals for
the second year in a row. The top three hospitals were Massachusetts General
Hospital in Boston, Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, Minn.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              307 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             July 23, 2015 Thursday

University of Utah Hospital, Intermountain Medical Center tie for best Utah
hospital

BYLINE: The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 243 words


In the contest for best Utah hospital, first place is a crowded spot. The two
titans are tied.

Intermountain Medical Center and University of Utah Hospital both lead the pack
of nearly 60 hospitals statewide, according to U.S. News & World Report's
2015-2016 "Best Hospitals" rankings, released this week.

There are multiple runners-up, too.

The No. 3 slot is shared by Ogden's Intermountain McKay-Dee Hospital, Salt Lake
City's LDS Hospital and Utah Valley Regional Medical Center in Provo.

Both of the overall first-place centers celebrated the news.

"This recognition is a reflection of the hard work and dedication of our staff
and physicians," said Vivian Lee, CEO of U. Health Care, in a prepared
statement, "and it's gratifying to be ranked among the nation's best."

The U. system has 527 hospital beds, about 1,300 physicians and 11 community
clinics along the Wasatch Front.

Intermountain Medical Center also praised its own "incredible team of
physicians, staff, volunteers and others who are passionate about delivering the
highest quality health care possible and who strive for excellence day in and
day out," said CEO David Grauer in a news release. "We are honored that their
great work is being recognized."

About 5,000 hospitals in 94 U.S. metro areas qualified for this year's rankings.

To do so, they had to offer each of 16 required medical specialties.

The rankings were based on death rates, patient safety rates, procedure volumes
and other criteria.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Record (New Jersey)

                          September 13, 2005, Tuesday

Hospitals improve 'report card' scores

BYLINE: By Bob Groves

LENGTH: 763 words



Most New Jersey hospitals improved their treatment of heart attack and pneumonia
patients in 2004 compared with the previous year, health officials said Monday.

Overall, the 82 acute-care hospitals in New Jersey continued to score higher in
caring for heart attack patients than in pneumonia care, though the gap narrowed
last year, according to the state's second annual "report card" on hospital
performance in the two clinical areas.

"The report shows that hospital care statewide is clearly getting better, and
quite rapidly in some cases," Health Commissioner Fred M. Jacobs said in a
statement.

"However, hospitals are still missing too many opportunities to give the kind of
care that can improve health and save lives," Jacobs said.

The New Jersey 2005 Hospital Performance Report scored the hospitals on their
use of eight procedures in treating more than 61,000 patients for whom such
procedures were deemed appropriate. The five procedures for heart attacks were
giving aspirin to the patient on arrival and discharge from the hospital, giving
beta blockers on arrival and discharge, and giving an ACE inhibitor upon
discharge.

Pneumonia scores were based on three care measures: the percentage of eligible
patients whose oxygen levels were checked within 24 hours of arrival, the
percentage who received antibiotics within four hours of arrival and the
percentage who were screened for pneumonia vaccination and immunized, if
appropriate.

Although about half of the 22 hospitals in Bergen, Passaic, Morris and Hudson
counties slipped in their statewide rankings since last year, the majority
improved their overall scores in this year's report.

The most remarkable improvement in heart attack scores was shown by Chilton
Memorial in Pompton Plains, in Morris County, which leaped to second place from
70th, with a 100 percent overall score for 2004, up from 82 percent overall in
2003.

In pneumonia, Chilton moved up to eighth place from 33rd with 92 percent overall
score in 2004, up from 77 percent the year before.

"We're very proud" of the scores, Chilton spokesman Brian White said Monday.
"It's the result of a lot of hard work, partnering our physicians in the
emergency room and in cardiac care."

However, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Department of Health and Senior
Services, which issued the report, cautioned that comparing overall scores is a
better indicator of improvement than hospital rankings, because there are
clusters of several hospitals that share the same scores.

"The key is the total score, not the rank," spokeswoman Gretchen Michael said.

Scores are taken out to four decimal points, so "the small differences [in
rankings] don't mean there's a real difference in hospital quality," Michael
said.

Dr. Charles Riccobono, spokesman for Hackensack University Medical Center, also
warned that the report card rankings are relative in many cases.

"Everyone is very reticent to attach a lot of importance to the rankings," said
Riccobono, a gastroenterologist and chief quality officer at Hackensack. Not all
hospitals treat patients with all eight care procedures, but were still ranked
with their competitors, he noted.

Also, patient volumes varied widely between hospitals. For example, Hackensack
handled 1,003 heart attack cases in 2004, while Chilton treated 150.

Hackensack slipped in ranking to 22nd in 2004 for heart attack care from 19th
place in 2003, but moved up to 97 percent overall score in 2004, from 96 percent
overall in 2003.

St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Paterson dropped to 80th place in
pneumonia care in 2004 from 75th place in 2003, but its overall score improved 9
percentage points in 2004 -- to 72 percent from 63 percent in 2003.

In heart attack care, however, St. Joseph's moved up to 40th place from 53rd
with a 94 percent score in 2004, compared with 87 percent in 2003.

Dr. Robert Faillace, a spokesman for St. Joseph's, criticized the ranking and
scoring system, but saw some value in it.

"It's definitely a helpful tool to see where our challenges are, and where to
improve," said Faillace, a cardiologist and chairman of cardiovascular services
at the hospital.


-----

To see more of The Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.NorthJersey.com. Copyright (c) 2005, The Record, Hackensack, N.J.

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: HK-HOSPITAL-RATINGS-20050913

JOURNAL-CODE: HK

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                     Copyright 2005 The Record (New Jersey)

                              309 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              March 4, 2016 Friday

Blue Cross to upgrade RMC on its preferred hospital list

BYLINE: Patrick McCreless, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 770 words


March 04--Alabama's top private health care insurer has upgraded Regional
Medical Center on its preferred hospital list this year, preventing higher costs
for some patients.

Koko Mackin, spokeswoman for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama, said the
insurer decided to upgrade the Anniston hospital, based on new information,
after lowering its ranking last month. Had the downgrade stuck, some Blue Cross
patients would have faced higher out-of-pocket costs had they been treated at
RMC, according to the insurer.

A Feb. 29 letter Blue Cross sent to some of its customers states the insurer had
adjusted its 2016 rankings of the most efficient, cost-effective hospitals in
its Hospital Tiered Network program.

The program, set to take effect April 1, measures and ranks Blue Cross'
in-network hospitals on quality, patient experience and cost. The letter states
the purpose of the program is to help Blue Cross customers in the program make
informed choices about their care.

Hospitals in the list are ranked as either tier 1 or the lower tier 2.

The list showed that RMC had been downgraded to a tier 2 ranking.

Mackin said Friday that RMC's tier 1 status has since been restored.

"There was a rescoring this week based on additional information and this
changed RMC from tier 2 to tier 1," Mackin said. "We will re-evaluate hospitals
throughout the year and allow facilities to move up if they meet criteria."

Hospitals will not be moved from tier 1 to tier 2 during this calendar year, she
added.

The letter states that any of Blue Cross' customers in the tier-ranking program
face higher out-of-pocket costs if they use a tier 2 hospital for health care
services as opposed to a tier 1 facility.

Kate Van Meter, RMC spokeswoman, said Blue Cross had initially sent notification
to RMC that its ranking would drop in April.

"Tier scoring is continually updated as new information becomes available and as
a result of the updated data, we received notification that RMC would remain a
tier 1 hospital," Van Meter said. "Our mission is to provide state-of-the-art
healthcare to our community and we are pleased to be able to continue that
mission as a tier 1 Hospital."

The list also showed that Stringfellow Memorial Hospital in Anniston will remain
a tier 2 hospital from the previous year. Gadsden Regional Medical Center will
remain a tier 1 hospital.

Meanwhile, St. Vincent's St. Clair hospital in Pell City has also been dropped
to tier 2 status, the list shows.

Michael Korpiel, president and COO of St. Vincent's St. Clair, in a Thursday
email to The Star, said St. Vincent's continues to meet and exceed all tier 1
measurements for quality and patient satisfaction.

"The tier change is a decision BCBS made based on financial criteria that we are
still reviewing," Korpiel said. "We understand the impact this decision will
have on our patients and continue to do everything we can to have St. Vincent's
St. Clair remain a tier 1 provider in the future."

Korpeil added that the tier one changes don't apply to everyone with a Blue
Cross plan and that customers should reach out to the insurer to see if they
will be impacted.

Mackin said many of the ranking changes this year were based more on cost.

"Due to recent increases in healthcare costs, this year's criteria placed
greater emphasis on cost," she said. "It is important that we continue to
provide our members information about the more cost-effective hospitals."

According to the Commonwealth Fund, a New York-based national foundation that
promotes health care improvement, employers are increasingly using
tiered-network health plans to steer employees toward lower-priced,
higher-quality care providers. In these plans, cost-sharing is lowest if members
choose providers from the preferred tier.

In a 2015 Commonwealth Fund-supported study, Harvard University researchers
found Blue Cross tiered-network customers in Massachusetts were more likely than
those in nontiered plans to receive care at a preferred hospital. Over the
course of the study, between 2009 and 2012, 44 percent of hospitals changed
tiers, mostly from a lower ranking to a preferred one, and nearly all because
they decreased their prices.

Rosemary Blackmon, vice president of the Alabama Hospital Association, said that
in general, hospitals in the state aren't opposed to the tiered program.

"Having a focus on quality and value is something all payers are looking at and
it's not something hospitals are saying is a bad thing," Blackmon said.

___ (c)2016 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160304-AO-Blue-Cross-to-upgrade-RMC-on-its-preferred-hospital
-list-0304-20160304

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2016 The Anniston Star

                              310 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Oklahoma Business Briefs

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 441 words


Integris gets state's top rankingU.S. News &amp; World Report has recognized
Integris Baptist Medical Center as Oklahoma's Best Regional Hospital for
2016-17, the fifth consecutive year the hospital has received the overall top
ranking for both the city and state.Baptist Medical Center ranked
high-performing in the following procedures and conditions: Abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair, heart bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, COPD
and hip replacement.Hospitals that achieved high-performing ratings for at least
four types of care are designated as Best Regional Hospitals.The U.S. News Best
Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, help guide patients to hospitals
that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties, procedures and conditions.
The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective measures such as patient
survival, the number of times a given procedure is performed, infection rates,
adequacy of nurse staffing and more."Both consumers and health care
professionals recognize U.S. News hospital rankings as the 'gold standard' of
excellence in U.S. hospital care," said Bruce Lawrence, president and chief
executive officer of Integris. "These awards are based not on someone's opinion
or on a few isolated data points, but rather on in-depth analyses of vast and
varied types of information about actual patient care and outcomes."Best
Hospitals was produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a leading research
organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.Midcon building data
centerMidcon Recovery Solutions has started construction on a 60,000-square-foot
secure data center in the Quail Springs Business Park in northwest Oklahoma
City, the company said Tuesday.

The new center will be the third owned and operated by Midcon&nbsp;in Oklahoma.
When completed later this year, the new Midcon data center also will include a
self-contained office and business continuity section for companies requiring a
single site, full-service disaster recovery solution."We have seen a lot of
growth in hosting, monitoring, managing and securing of data for every type and
size of businesses the past three years," said Kurt Kraft, president of
Midcon&nbsp;Recovery Solutions. "In recent years, companies have made minimizing
business disruptions from natural disasters a top business priority. There is a
greater understanding of the importance of having a business continuity plan in
place, ready to execute on a moment's notice. For many, it has become a central
part of their risk management plan."The new data center is designed to withstand
an EF5 tornado and significant seismic events.From Staff Reports

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday

A healthy, welcome dose of self-policing

BYLINE: By Times-Herald editorial staff

SECTION: OUR VIEW

LENGTH: 490 words


Nothing is more nerve wracking or fearsome as the loss of one's health, and
going to the hospital for treatment should not make those fears more frazzled.

Yet, based on their own records many California hospitals, including those
serving Vallejo residents, have yet to understand fully how their operations
before the scalpel, as well as during and after surgery, greatly heighten or
soothe patient anxiety.

That is why we applaud the recent launching of a statewide Web site that
compares hospitals in some of the most critical forms of treatment patients
face. The site is www.calhospitalcompare.org


Times-Herald editorialsThe Times-Herald editorial board consists of Publisher
Ron Rhea, Editor Ted Vollmer, Managing Editor Jack F.K. Bungart and City Editor
Mary Leahy Enbom.

While the new Web site tends to oversimplify treatment rankings and is based on
relatively old data, it nevertheless serves as an important notice to hospitals
that they can no longer merely rely on perception to win patient confidence.

The hospitals already appear to be getting the message. Sutter Solano Medical
Center and Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Vallejo both received poor scores
for treatment of heart failure. Kaiser, however, received a near perfect score
in how they treat heart attack victims.

Why the disparity? Kaiser officials say they provide excellent care for heart
patients, but until recently were admittedly inconsistent in how they recorded
that care on patient records. Given their new procedures, their scores will rise
much higher, they insist.

Sutter Solano officials offer a similar defense, saying they had pre-ranking
survey goals to meet by the end of 2006 and exceeded them.

A doctor who helped develop the ranking system said, however, that all
participating hospitals not only knew the methodology but accepted it.

We have no reason to doubt that the two hospitals as well as the 200-plus others
on the Web site will continue to work for improvements. The next report card
comes in June, and both Kaiser and Sutter Health facilities, we should point
out, volunteered the data that led to the various rankings.

Any improvements will obviously bolster the hospitals' operations. More
importantly, any reforms will work to provide not only better, more consistent
healthcare but also will ease concerns of most patients who have little or no
choice of hospitals they enter or doctors who treat them.

We commend the self-policing aims of the rankings, the participation of the
hospitals and hope there is a genuine growth of which areas are studied. The
California Hospital Assessment and Reporting Taskforce should also be commended
for working with focus groups to determine an easy and understandable way for
those outside the medical profession to access this information. Consumers will
benefit mostly, but improvements in the most critical of treatments should
trickle down to the most basic, and that's a very healthy development.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 14, 2017 Monday

Northwestern Hospitals Among the Best in Latest U.S. News Rankings

LENGTH: 480  words



Evenston: Northwestern University has issued has the following news release:
Three Northwestern Medicine hospitals have been recognized by U.S. News & World
Report in its 2017-18 Best Hospitals rankings.


Northwestern Memorial Hospital was once again recognized as one of the top
hospitals in the country, ranking 13th on the prestigious Best Hospitals Honor
Roll. Northwestern Memorial remains ranked 1st in both the Chicago Metro Region
and Illinois for the sixth consecutive year. Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital was ranked 5th in both the Chicago Metro Region and Illinois.
Northwestern Medicine Lake Forest Hospital was ranked 18th in the Chicago Metro
Region and 23rd in Illinois.
"Northwestern Medicine's continued success in the U.S. News Best Hospitals
rankings is a reflection of our Patients First mission and our culture of
excellence that drives us to not only be Chicago's premier academic health
system, but one of the best health systems in the country," said Dean M.
Harrison, president and chief executive officer of Northwestern Memorial
HealthCare. "I applaud and congratulate our exceptional physicians, nurses and
staff who provide world-class compassionate care to our patients each and every
day. Without their talents and dedication, this accolade would not be possible."

The Best Hospitals Honor Roll is a distinction awarded to 20 U.S. hospitals that
deliver the highest quality of care across a range of specialties, procedures
and conditions. U.S. News evaluated hospitals across 16 specialties and nine
procedures and conditions.
Northwestern Memorial is nationally ranked in 11 out of 16 specialties with one
high performing specialty and is high performing in all nine
procedures/conditions. Central DuPage Hospital is nationally ranked in two
specialties with one high performing specialty and eight high performing
procedures/conditions. Lake Forest Hospital has two high performing specialties
and two high performing procedures/conditions.
Northwestern Memorial has four specialties that received top 10 recognition:
Cardiology & Heart Surgery (7th), Geriatrics (9th), Neurology and Neurosurgery
(9th) and Orthopaedics (9th). In addition to its top 10 programs, Northwestern
Memorial was also nationally ranked or recognized as high performing in the
following specialties: Cancer (16th), Diabetes & Endocrinology (31st),
Gastroenterology & GI Surgery (22nd), Gynecology (36th), Nephrology (23rd),
Pulmonology (21st), Urology (11th) and Rheumatology (High Performing).
Central DuPage Hospital was ranked highly in Gynecology (43rd) and Orthopaedics
(30th) and recognized as high performing in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery. Lake
Forest Hospital was recognized as high performing in Orthopaedics and Urology.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Pennsylvania: Children's Hospital ranked among best in nation in eight
specialties

LENGTH: 525  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


University Park, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following News
release:

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, gastroenterology and GI surgery, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. This marks the fifth
consecutive year in which Penn State Hershey has been ranked in multiple
specialties. The Children's Hospital first made the Best Children's Hospitals
list in 2008. The rankings come as no surprise to parents like Valerie Hester,
whose 6-year-old daughter Savannah has been treated at Penn State Hershey since
age 2, when she was diagnosed with gastroparesis, a condition that does not
allow the stomach to empty. After several surgeries and office visits over the
past four years, Savannah is wrapping up first grade and looking forward to
drawing, painting and playing outside this summer. "Their physicians and staff
are like family," Valerie said. "Their hearts are warm to the children. They
care for kids both physically and emotionally." Go to video Penn State Hershey
Children's Hospital again ranked nationally in multiple specialties Penn State
Hershey Children's Hospital is ranked by U.S. News and World Report in 8
pediatric specialties including: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, GI and GI
surgery, neurology and neurosurgery, nephrology, orthopedics, pulmonology, and
urology. The U.S. News rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of
10 pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. "This national recognition
is a testament to the unparalleled care and support our physicians, nurses,
clinical specialists and other staff provide for children and families every
day," said Dr. Craig Hillemeier, dean of Penn State College of Medicine, chief
executive officer of Penn State Hershey Medical Center and Health System, and
Penn State's senior vice president for health affairs. "The U.S. News rankings
reinforce for our community that Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital is among
the best when it comes to offering a full spectrum of high-level pediatric care,
and we do it right here in central Pennsylvania." U.S. News introduced the Best
Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help families of sick children find the
best medical care available, especially for complex conditions. The rankings
offer families an array of detailed information about each hospital's
performance. In compiling the latest rankings, U.S. News considered several
objective criteria. Most of each hospital's score relied on patient outcomes and
care-related resources. U.S. News garnered clinical data from a detailed
questionnaire sent to 184 pediatric hospitals. A sixth of the score came from
annual surveys of pediatric specialists and subspecialists who were asked where
they would send the sickest children in their specialty, setting aside location
and expense.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Pennsylvania: Children's Hospital ranked among best in nation in eight
specialties

LENGTH: 525  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


University Park, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following News
release:

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, gastroenterology and GI surgery, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. This marks the fifth
consecutive year in which Penn State Hershey has been ranked in multiple
specialties. The Children's Hospital first made the Best Children's Hospitals
list in 2008. The rankings come as no surprise to parents like Valerie Hester,
whose 6-year-old daughter Savannah has been treated at Penn State Hershey since
age 2, when she was diagnosed with gastroparesis, a condition that does not
allow the stomach to empty. After several surgeries and office visits over the
past four years, Savannah is wrapping up first grade and looking forward to
drawing, painting and playing outside this summer. "Their physicians and staff
are like family," Valerie said. "Their hearts are warm to the children. They
care for kids both physically and emotionally." Go to video Penn State Hershey
Children's Hospital again ranked nationally in multiple specialties Penn State
Hershey Children's Hospital is ranked by U.S. News and World Report in 8
pediatric specialties including: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, GI and GI
surgery, neurology and neurosurgery, nephrology, orthopedics, pulmonology, and
urology. The U.S. News rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of
10 pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. "This national recognition
is a testament to the unparalleled care and support our physicians, nurses,
clinical specialists and other staff provide for children and families every
day," said Dr. Craig Hillemeier, dean of Penn State College of Medicine, chief
executive officer of Penn State Hershey Medical Center and Health System, and
Penn State's senior vice president for health affairs. "The U.S. News rankings
reinforce for our community that Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital is among
the best when it comes to offering a full spectrum of high-level pediatric care,
and we do it right here in central Pennsylvania." U.S. News introduced the Best
Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help families of sick children find the
best medical care available, especially for complex conditions. The rankings
offer families an array of detailed information about each hospital's
performance. In compiling the latest rankings, U.S. News considered several
objective criteria. Most of each hospital's score relied on patient outcomes and
care-related resources. U.S. News garnered clinical data from a detailed
questionnaire sent to 184 pediatric hospitals. A sixth of the score came from
annual surveys of pediatric specialists and subspecialists who were asked where
they would send the sickest children in their specialty, setting aside location
and expense.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

Report: Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked among nation's best

BYLINE: Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 158 words


Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital has been ranked in five specialties in
U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best Children's Hospitals rankings, according
to a hospital news release.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, urology, orthopedics,
neurology and neurosurgery, and cardiology and heart surgery - two more
specialties than last year. Children's Hospital first made the Best Children's
Hospitals list in 2008. The new Best Children's Hospitals list is the first to
be released since Penn State Hershey opened its new 263,000-square-foot
Children's Hospital building in February.

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of these pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. Eighty-seven hospitals across the country
ranked in one or more specialties.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Via Pennstatehersheynewsroom.org

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Noosa News (Queensland)

                                January 29, 2013

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 483  words

Noosa Hospital gets global ranking

RAMSAY Health Care, operator of Noosa Hospital, has been announced in the Global
100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World, at the World Economic Forum in
Davos (Switzerland).

The Global 100 is the world's most well-known and credible corporate
sustainability ranking. Now, in its ninth year, the index distils the top 100
companies from a universe of more than 4000 mid-cap and larger companies.

This is the second year in a row that Ramsay Health Care has been recognised in
the Global 100 list but, in 2013, the company moved significantly up the list
from a ranking of 99 in 2012 to a ranking this year of 68. Ramsay Health Care
was one of nine Australian companies that made it into the industry-leading
sustainability index.

Art grants worth up to $10,000

 THE latest major round of RADF is now open and offers up to $10,000 in funding
for concept, skills and career development.

Grants of up to $10,000 are available in this round of RADF to local artists and
organisations, helping them to develop or share skills, attend cultural
conferences and produce great projects.

For more information, phone 5441 8385, email
commcultural@sunshinecoast.qld.gov.au or visit sunshinecoast.qld.gov.au/grants.

Applications for the RADF grants close at 5pm on Friday, March 1.

Council traineeship on offer

SUNSHINE Coast Council is offering a range of 12-month full-time entry level
traineeships across the region.

Applications for traineeships are now open and offer opportunities to work in
administration, horticulture, customer contact, information technology and
libraries.

A full-time traineeship is for a period of 12 months, during which time trainees
gain knowledge, practical skills and qualifications that will help them gain
employment either with council or the wider job market.

Traineeship positions are advertised once a year. Traineeships for 2013
advertised with the council's current vacancies close on February 4.

The council will recruit for these positions in February with an anticipated
start date for the traineeships of March 11.

Music opportunity

SUNSHINE Coast Council's AMPED program has partnered with QMusic to provide a
unique opportunity for eight music industry professionals to be chosen to attend
a professional capacity building workshop.

Taking place at Coast venue Solbar on Wednesday, February 13 from 9.45am to 7pm,
this workshop aims to assist emerging music industry professionals to build on
their existing skills to carve out a successful career.

Eight participants will be selected through an expression of interest process
with one being chosen to obtain experience in planning and promoting phase two
of the AMPED workshop series and the AMPED Live events.

Applications close on January 31. View the council's website or phone 5475 7272
to talk to the creative development officer.

Got news?

Email noosaed@scnews.com.au

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SNN


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

Study ranks Mississippi-based River Oaks Hospital second in nation for spinal
procedure

BYLINE: MBJ Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 136  words


River Oaks Hospital has received the nation's second-highest ranking among
hospitals performing spine discectomy, or the surgical removal of herniated
discs that are pressing on a nerve or the spinal cord.

River Oaks was also ranked 21st on the list of the nation's top 25 hospitals in
the area of spine fusion, a surgical procedure that joins, or fuses, two or more
vertebrae.

Both of the rankings were announced by Orthopedic News.

River Oaks reports it earned the ranking in the area of spinal discectomy due to
a comprehensive surgical program that includes a neurology and orthopedic
coordinator to assist surgeons; frequent peer review of all surgery cases;
surgical teams that collaborate to ensure the best patient outcome; and, patient
education coordinators that provide critical pre- and post-op information.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 998 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

5 Local Employers Lauded On Wellness Hershey Children's Hospital On 6 Lists

SECTION: B; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 262  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Five local employers recently received Well Workplace Awards for improving
wellness in the workplace.

Among employers with 250 workers or less, Precision Medical Products won a gold
award and Dutchland Inc. won a platinum award.

Among employers with more than 250 workers, High Co. won a gold award and
Lancaster General Health won a platinum award.

And Herr Foods was honored with an innovation award for promoting good mental
health.

Competing companies were evaluated on 12 measures, including their efforts to
address physical activity, nutrition, weight management, stress management,
tobacco control and high blood pressure.

The awards were presented by Lighten Up Lancaster County, the Lancaster County
Business Group on Health, the Tobacco Free Coalition and the Lancaster Health
Improvement Partnership.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital has been ranked in six specialties - its
most ever - in U.S. News & World Report's latest annual Best Children's
Hospitals rankings.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, and urology.

This marks the fourth consecutive year in which Penn State Hershey has been
ranked in multiple pediatric specialties. The hospital first made the Best
Children's Hospitals list in 2008.

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of 10 pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 2, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Johns Hopkins tops list of hospitals

BYLINE: Mike Madden

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 380 words


Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore tops the list for the sixth
straight year in U.S. News & World Report's
annual ranking of the best hospitals in the USA, out Monday.

The hospital was among the nation's 10 best in almost every specialty
field the magazine surveyed, and it beat out 125 others for the
overall No. 1 spot. Rankings were based on reputation among doctors
and medical data like nurses-to-beds ratio and technological prowess.


"We're honored that once again we have been selected as the No.
1 hospital in the nation," says hospital president Dr. James
Block. "It is clearly a reflection of the remarkable medical
staff that we have, as well as our large group of dedicated employees."

Other hospitals ranked in the overall top five: the Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minn.; Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; UCLA
Medical Center, Los Angeles; and Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, N.C. The top five were the same as last year. There were
only a few changes in the top 15.

The list's consistency isn't just a product of entrenched reputation,
says U.S. News senior editor Susan Brink. "Excellence
is excellence. What the doctors think is best also holds up when
you throw in objective measures."

To qualify for the rankings, a hospital had to be a member of
the Council of Teaching Hospitals, be affiliated with a medical
school or have half of the magazine's list of significant items
of medical technology.

New York has the most hospitals in the specialized top 10 rankings,
with 13. Nine were in Boston, eight were in Los Angeles and seven
in Chicago.



By specialty

Top hospitals by specialty:

AIDS: San Francisco General Hospital Medical Center.

Cancer: Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York. Close
second: University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston.

Cardiology: Cleveland Clinic.

Geriatrics: University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center.

Gynecology: Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore.

Neurology: Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

Pediatrics: Children's Hospital, Boston.

Psychiatric Care: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, edging
out C.F. Menninger Memorial Hospital, Topeka.

Urology: Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore.

LOAD-DATE: August 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              320 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 8, 2003 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Magazine names All Children's Hospital to top 25 list

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


A national parenting magazine has named All Children's Hospital one of the
nation's top 25  medical centers for pediatric care, and one of the two best in
Florida.

All Children's in St. Petersburg and Wolfson Children's Hospital in Jacksonville
tied for 16th place in Child magazine's annual ranking.

They were the only Florida hospitals on the list. All Children's was ranked 16th
last year as well.

The rankings were based on information from the Joint Commission on
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations and the National Association of
Children's Hospitals and Related Institutions, the magazine and hospital said.

Hospitals also completed surveys on survival rates, staff qualifications, safety
and other criteria.

Nationally, 100 hospitals were considered for the  25 spots. The issue hits
newsstands next Tuesday. The leading children's hospital was the Children's
Hospital of Pennsylvania. A complete list can be found on the magazine's Web
site,  http://www.child.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company

                              321 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                         May 3, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Wolters Kluwer Health: Methodist Health System Selects ProVation Medical
Software for Documentation and Coding

LENGTH: 231  words


New Delhi, May 3 -- Wolters Kluwer Health, a leading global provider of
information for healthcare professionals and students, announced today that
Methodist Health System has selected its ProVation Medical software for
gastroenterology procedure documentation and coding.



Headquartered in Omaha, Neb., Methodist Health System is the oldest health
system in Nebraska and southwestern Iowa and includes Methodist Hospital,
Methodist Jennie Edmundson Hospital, Methodist Women's Hospital, 21 physician
clinics and three urgent care centers. Ranked second in Nebraska in U.S. News &
World Report's 2012-13 Best Hospitals rankings, Methodist Health System was
named a high performer in the specialties of cancer, geriatrics, gynecology,
urology, and ear, nose and throat in the 2013 Best Hospitals rankings. Methodist
Hospital and Methodist Jennie Edmundson Hospital also received Top Performer
Awards from Professional Research Consultants for in- and out-patient care,
respectively.

"Methodist Health System is dedicated to providing high-quality healthcare to
the communities it serves, as evidenced by its many awards and achievements,"
said Mike Haldane, Vice President and General Manager, Clinical Documentation,
Wolters Kluwer Health Clinical Solutions. "We are pleased that ProVation MD for
GI was chosen to further this mission by providing streamlined documentation and
coding for GI."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Hotel Shilla, Severance Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University top rankings

LENGTH: 270 words


Hotel Shilla, Severance Hospital and Sungkyunkwan University topped the consumer
satisfaction rankings in their respective industries, according to the NCSI
survey for 2014.

In the overall rankings, Hotel Shilla ranked top out of the surveyed 305
companies and institutions with 84 points, Severance Hospital at No. 5 with 81
points, and Sungkyunkwan University at No. 9 with 80 points.

Established in 1973 by Samsung Group founder Lee Byung-chull, Hotel Shilla is a
luxury hotel with locations in Seoul and Jejudo Island, and is a member of the
Leading Hotels of the World. The hotel in Seoul went through a seven-month
renovation in 2013, and now boasts an outdoor pool with a bar and bistro called
Urban Island as well as a fitness club and upscale restaurants.

Severance Hospital

Severance Hospital, which topped in the category of general hospitals, is the
oldest Western-style one in Korea, founded in 1885 as a royal hospital named
Gwanghyewon. It was renamed in 1904 after American donor Louis Severance.

Severance is well known for their risk-minimizing robotic surgery, and also has
one of the oldest international health care centers for foreign expats in Korea.

Sungkyunkwan University

Sungkyunkwan University, which ranked first in the sector of private college, is
a university with two campuses each in Seoul and Suwon. It is a successor to
Sungkyunkwan, a prestigious educational institution from the Joseon Dynasty
founded in 1398. The university offers a Global MBA program taught entirely in
English, and also boasts one of the best medical schools, affiliated with
Samsung Medical Center.

(sangyj@heraldcorp.c

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              July 29, 2016 Friday

Springfield surgical hospital one of few in Ohio to receive top rating

BYLINE: Matt Sanctis, Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words


July 29--A Springfield surgical hospital ranks among the top in the state for
patient care, while other regional hospitals also received high marks on new
federal scorecards.

The Ohio Valley Surgical Hospital received the top possible score for patient
care, earning a five-star rating this week according to the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services. Only nine hospitals statewide received the top score.

>>RELATED:Surgical hospital creates 250 jobs, medical hub in Springfield

Mercy Memorial Hospital in Urbana also fared well -- earning four stars -- while
Springfield Regional Medical Center earned three stars.

The goal of the federal ranking is to help patients make decisions on where to
get the best care, as well as to encourage hospitals to improve quality. The
ratings are based on a range of factors, including effectiveness of care,
patient experience and mortality rates.

This is the third time in recent years the Ohio Valley Surgical Hospital has
earned the highest ranking, said Steve Eistrager, president at Ohio Valley. The
results are compiled quarterly, but this time new safety and quality measures
were included in the rankings, he said.

Fewer than 200 hospitals nationally received the top five-star rating, he said.

"The secret ingredient here is we're private, physician-run," Eistrager said.
"This is our hospital and there's a lot of pride in that."

Ohio Valley is the second-busiest provider of outpatient surgery in the
Springfield-Dayton region, second only to Miami Valley Hospital, Ohio Valley
officials said.

Officials from both Ohio Valley and Community Mercy Health Partners pointed to
steps they have taken in recent years to improve everything from patient
satisfaction to access to care. At Ohio Valley for example, the surgical
hospital has focused on improving patient satisfaction at every step, from
making it easier to register through follow-up calls after the procedure is
complete.

"It's scary sometimes for people coming to health care and they're afraid or
don't know what to expect," Eistrager said.

At the same time, the data used in the star-rating system is at least a year
old, so it doesn't fully include the latest measures or results, cautioned Paul
Hiltz, president and CEO of Community Mercy.

"One of the things we're very focused on here is preventive care, which really
isn't much a part of these rankings but is related," Hiltz said. "We're
interested really in trying to keep people out of the hospital and doing
preventive care in the primary care offices and partnering with public health to
work on having a healthier population here in Clark and Champaign County."

CMHP also appointed Dr. Donald Johnson, a longtime Springfield clinician, to
work with area physicians to look for ways to improve primary care.

He also led the development of CMHP's chronic disease program in Urbana. That
program helps patients manage conditions like diabetes, congestive heart failure
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease to improve care and reduce
re-admissions to the hospital.

>>MORE DETAILS:Mercy Chronic Care Clinic in Urbana already seeing growth

"Having the physicians engaged and driving this is one of the reasons you're
seeing improvements in our scores," Hiltz said.

The ratings system doesn't take into account the different missions of various
hospitals, he said, or the kinds of patients they serve.

"In Clark and Champaign County we have environmental and social factors like
high smoking rates, high obesity rates and high diabetes rates," Hiltz said.
"Those things may not be accurately reflected in this rating."

The ratings can be a useful tool for patients, said John Palmer, a spokesman for
the Ohio Hospital Association. But consumers have an increasing number of
sources for information online, including separate rankings from organizations
like Consumer Reports and U.S. News and World Report.

"Ultimately it's collaborating and talking with their health-care provider that
is highly recommended for the consumer to make the best choice possible," Palmer
said.

Complete coverage

The Springfield News-Sun provides unmatched coverage of health care in Clark and
Champaign Counties, including recent stories on obesity rates and smoking.

On the web:

https://www.medicare.gov/hospitalcompare/search.html

___ (c)2016 Springfield News-Sun, Ohio Visit Springfield News-Sun, Ohio at
www.springfieldnewssun.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160729-1SP-Springfield-surgical-hospital
-one-of-few-in-Ohio-to-receive-top-rating-0729-20160729

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1SP


                   Copyright 2016 Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

                              324 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      January 20, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas: Three-Star Rating Earned in
Cardiovascular Care

LENGTH: 353  words


New Delhi, Jan. 20 -- The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano begins 2014 with another
three-star quality rating, the highest rating possible from The Society of
Thoracic Surgeons (STS), for aortic valve replacement surgery (AVR) and coronary
bypass surgery (CABG). Only 2.3 percent of cardiovascular programs nationwide
receive a three-star ranking in both these categories, based on STS quality
methodology.



In addition to achieving these top rankings again, The Heart Hospital Baylor
Plano earned another three-star rating in a new category of aortic valve
replacement plus coronary bypass procedure.

"With this latest STS quality ranking, The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano is one of
14 programs in the United States to hold a three-star ranking in all three
categories," says Mark Valentine, president, The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano.
"This is a testament to the expertise of our healthcare team."

THHBP's top ratings in bypass surgery were measured the reporting period of
fiscal year 2013. The measurement period for the aortic valve replacement
surgery and the new category of combined aortic valve plus bypass surgery was
fiscal years 2010 - 2013.

The STS Adult Cardiac Surgery Database is the world's premier clinical registry
for cardiac surgery. The Database houses nearly five million surgical records
and gathers information from more than 90 percent of the groups that perform
cardiac surgery in the United States. In 2012, the Database welcomed surgeons
from Brazil, Israel, and Turkey as its first international participants.

The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano

The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano is ranked eighth in the country in heart valve
surgeries based on patient volume and is the first and only freestanding,
full-service hospital in this region dedicated solely to heart and vascular
health care. The hospital is recognized as one of the top 10 largest heart
surgery centers in the country, the largest cardiothoracic surgery program in
Texas. The 116-bed hospital was created through a partnership between Baylor
Regional Medical Center at Plano and cardiovascular physicians and surgeons
practicing in North Texas.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Press - Victorville (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 29, 2009 Tuesday

Desert Valley Hospital rated number one

BYLINE: Daily Press, Victorville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


Dec. 29--VICTORVILLE

--Desert Valley Hospital has been ranked "No. 1 in its Market for Value" by an
independent health care information company.

Desert Valley Hospital was awarded the distinction in the 2009-10 Hospital Value
Index created by Data Advantage, LLC. The Hospital Value Index is the only
national study which measures the value of care in U.S. hospitals.

Desert Valley Hospital was also one of two Prime Healthcare Services hospitals
to be named "Best in Value" in the study, along with West Anaheim Medical
Center. Prime Healthcare Services is an integrated health care system founded by
Dr. Prem Reddy, chairman of the board for Desert Valley Hospital. Prime
Healthcare owns and operates 13 acute care hospitals in California.

The Hospital Value Index provides an independent analysis of more than 4,500
hospitals across the country, ranking them in the categories of quality,
affordability and efficiency and patient satisfaction.

"To earn a No. 1 ranking in your state is a significant accomplishment that
deserves recognition and celebration," said Araby Thornwell, president of Client
Services for Data Advantage, LLC.

"I am grateful to every one of our physicians and medical staff for their
efforts in this accomplishment," said Dr. Reddy.

To see more of the Daily Press, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.vvdailypress.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Daily Press, Victorville,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091229-VV-Desert-Valley-Hospital-rated-number-one-1229

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VV


                           Copyright 2009 Daily Press

                              326 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL LISTED NO. 1 IN STATE

BYLINE: State Journal staff, wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 515 words


UW Hospital is the top hospital in Wisconsin and among the nation's top 50
hospitals in seven medical specialties, according to U.S. News and World
Report's latest ranking, released today.

It's the first time the magazine has ranked hospitals by state. It has ranked
them nationally by specialties for many years.

UW's ranking in the specialties, according to UW spokeswoman Lisa Brunette:
nephrology, 24th; geriatrics, 29th; pulmonology, 33rd; ear, nose and throat,
38th; neurology/neurosurgery, 40th; cancer, 41st; gynecology, 44th.

St. Mary's spokesman Steve Van Dinter said St. Mary's is ranked 11th among
hospitals in Wisconsin and is being recognized in two specialties: geriatrics
and diabetes/endocrinology.

Meriter spokeswoman Mary Reinke said Meriter didn't have any information about
any U.S. News rankings.

Accuray to buy imaging company

Accuray, the parent company of TomoTherapy, has signed an agreement to buy
Morphormics, a privately owned medical imaging software company, for $5.7
million.

Accuray has been licensing Morphormics' technology since 2008 and said acquiring
the company, which grew out of research at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, will let it extend those capabilities for Accuray's CyberKnife and
for TomoTherapy's system.

Accuray, of Sunnyvale, Calif., bought TomoTherapy, of Madison, in June 2011 for
$277 million in cash and stock. Both companies make radiation equipment used to
treat cancer patients.

WPS might close Wausau office

WPS Health Insurance says it may be forced to close its Wausau office because it
is losing a key contract. WPS offices in Wausau and Madison handle claims for
TriWest Healthcare Alliance, which administered TRICARE, a Department of Defense
division that provides managed care for military personnel in 21 states.

TriWest lost its military contract and the subsequent appeal. The contract will
be awarded to UnitedHealth Military & Veterans, a division of UnitedHealth
Group.

WPS says the Wausau office might close after the TriWest contract expires in
April. WPS won't say how many people might be facing layoffs, but as of last
year it had 500 workers in Wausau.

BRIEFLY

COMMODITIES: Gold for August delivery fell 40 cents Monday to settle at
$1,591.60 an ounce. September silver fell 4.8 cents to $27.321 an ounce.
September copper fell 1.9 cents to $3.485 a pound. December corn rose 32.25
cents to $7.725 a bushel. September wheat rose 36.75 cents to $8.845 a bushel.
November soybeans rose 38 cents to $15.905 a bushel.

FIRST BUSINESS: FIG Partners, an employee-owned broker/dealer based in Atlanta,
has started independent research coverage on First Business Financial Services,
Madison. FIG Partners rates the bank as "outperform" with a 12-month price
target of $29 a share for First Business stock, which trades on the Nasdaq
market under the symbol FBIZ.

ESCAPE RECALL: Ford is recalling more than 10,000 redesigned 2013 Escape SUVs.
Ford says that wrongly positioned carpet padding could reduce space around the
pedals and cause drivers to hit the side of the brake pedal when switching from
the accelerator.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      July 17, 1998, Friday, ALL EDITIONS

Emory on list of top U.S. hospitals

BYLINE: Diane Lore

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 02C; Pg. 02C

LENGTH: 323 words


Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C., ranked fourth among America's
best hospitals in U.S. News & World Report's ninth annual survey --- the only
Southern hospital to make the magazine's "honor roll."

But Emory University Hospital in Atlanta also made the list of top hospitals in
the country, ranking seventh in cardiac care and among the top 45 hospitals in
11 other specialties.

"We're delighted; we're very pleased with these results, although we want to
keep improving," said Dr. Douglas Morris, director of the Emory Heart Center. "I
think this reflects the fact that we can offer not only metro Atlanta, but the
state of Georgia and the Southeast a broad range of expertise --- which is our
ultimate goal."

The magazine assessed about 2,000 hospitals, with 132 scoring high enough to be
ranked.

In overall quality, Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore ranked No. 1 in the
country, followed by the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., Massachusetts General
Hospital in Boston and Duke. The four hospitals held the same rankings in 1997.

This year, Emory ranked 45th for cancer, 37th for endocrinology, 33rd for
gastroenterology, 16th in neurology and neurosurgery, 26th in gynecology, 23rd
in geriatrics, 14th in orthopedics, 33rd in otolaryngology, 14th in
ophthalmology, 30th in rheumatology and 22nd in urology.

Other Southeastern medical facilities scored well in certain specialities. In
endocrinology, the only other Georgia hospital to make the list --- Memorial
Medical Center of Savannah --- ranked 31st, and Medical University of South
Carolina in Charleston ranked 25th. Vanderbilt University Hospital and Clinic in
Nashville ranked 21st in cancer and the University of North Carolina Hospitals
(Chapel Hill) ranked 26th in geriatrics.

The rankings are based on a model that combines the reputation of doctors along
with patient information and mortality statistics supplied by the hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Metro Final Today's News

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution

                              328 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 8, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Boca Regional Again Garners Top-Ranked Regional Hospital Award

LENGTH: 332  words


Aug. 8 -- Boca Raton Regional Hospital has again been cited as a top-ranked
regional hospital in U.S. News & World Report's 2017-2018 annual review of its
Best Hospitals. The Hospital is currently ranked 16th out of approximately 300
hospitals in Florida and 6th in the Miami-Fort Lauderdale metro area, making it
the highest ranked hospital in Palm Beach County.

U.S. News & World Report also rated Boca Regional a high-performing hospital in
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), colon cancer surgery, heart
failure and lung cancer surgery.

"We are pleased to once again be acknowledged as a top-ranked hospital in the
region," said Jerry Fedele, President and CEO of Boca Raton Regional Hospital.
"Of the more than the 4,500 hospitals evaluated nationally by U.S. News & World
Report, barely 10% earned this prestigious accolade. It is truly gratifying to
receive such a significant honor for the level of care we provide."

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 28th year, help patients
make informed decisions about where to receive care for life-threatening
conditions or for common elective procedures. The Best Hospitals methodologies
include objective measures such as risk-adjusted survival and readmission rates,
volume, patient experience, patient safety, quality of nursing care and other
care-related indicators.

"For nearly three decades, we've strived to make hospital quality more
transparent to healthcare consumers nationwide," said Ben Harder, Managing
Editor and Chief of Health Analysis at U.S. News. "By providing the most
comprehensive data available, we hope to give patients the information they need
to find the best care across a range of specialties."

The regional hospital rankings are aimed primarily at consumers who may not be
willing or able to travel long distances for medical care. The rankings help
guide patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 16 specialties,
procedures and conditions.

Source: Boca Raton Regional Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                     Coffs Coast Advocate (New South Wales)

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday

Ramsay is international leader

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 307  words


THE owner of Coffs Harbour's Baringa Private Hospital, Ramsay Health Care, has
been named among the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World.

The accolade was announced at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.

The Global 100 is the world's most well-known and credible corporate
sustainability ranking. Now, in its ninth year, the index distils the top 100
companies from a universe of over 4000 mid-cap and larger companies.

This is the second year in a row that Ramsay Health Care has been recognised in
the Global 100 list but, in 2013, the company moved significantly up the list
from a ranking of 99 in 2012 to a ranking this year of 68.

Ramsay Health Care was one of nine Australian companies that made it into the
industry leading sustainability index.

Ramsay Health Care managing director Chris Rex said it was a great achievement
to be recognised by the index as it confirmed the company's strategy and vision
to become one of the world's most respected private hospital operators.

"As a global company, employing 30,000 staff and caring for over one million
patients each year, we recognise that we have an enormous responsibility to
ensure we are maintaining the highest standards of quality and safety; that we
are creating a great place to work; and that, as much as possible, we are
operating our business with a focus on resource productivity," Mr Rex said.

"While we are well on the way to becoming one of the largest and most successful
private hospital operators in the world, we also have a vision to be one of the
world's most respected companies and to this end, we can take a leadership role
in shaping the world that we live in through our focus on the environment, good
corporate governance and societal issues at large.

"We are very pleased to have made this list for the second year."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCA


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Herald Bulletin (Anderson, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday

Madison County ranks low for health

BYLINE: April Abernathy, The Herald Bulletin, Anderson, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 876 words


March 30--ANDERSON, Ind. -- Madison County isn't the healthiest place to live in
Indiana, but it's getting better -- relatively speaking.

County Health Rankings released reports early Wednesday morning ranking Madison
County 75th, improving from last year's ranking of 79th, out of 92 Indiana
counties in overall health.

"We're up four from last year," Stephenie Grimes, public health coordinator of
Madison County, said. "We're happy with that."

The health rankings are part of the Mobilizing Action Toward Community Health
projects, according to the County Health Rankings website. The rankings come as
part of a collaboration between the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the
University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute.

The rankings compare the health in more than 3,000 counties and the District of
Columbia. Rankings are based on length of life, or mortality, and quality of
life, or morbidity. Madison county ranked 62nd in mortality and 84th in
morbidity.

Other health factors such as smoking and obesity, clinical care and social,
economic and physical environments were researched.

People are nearly twice as likely to be in fair or poor health in the
unhealthiest counties, according to a press release from County Health Rankings.
Unhealthy counties have significantly lower high school graduation rates, twice
as many children in poverty, fewer grocery stores and farmers markets and higher
rates of unemployment.

With a high percentage of smokers and adult obesity and a high number of
sexually transmitted diseases, Madison County ranked 91st in health behaviors,
leading county health officials, hospitals and clinics to create initiatives to
improve health.

Grimes said through the Public Health System Quality Improvement Process
(PHSQIP), the State Health Department sponsored the Madison Health Partners
Board, a group of health officials from local hospitals, to come together for
four weeks to share where the county was ranked, educate, inform and work
together.

"As a result, the committee went through training," Grimes said. "They
prioritized and continued with strategic planning."

Because the percentage of smokers in the county stayed the same, the board
identified smoking as the issue to work on.

"They had to choose a health initiative and a system plan," Karesa Knight,
executive director, Intersect Inc., said. "The initiative was smoke-free air and
the system plan was to build on  more cohesive health in the community."

Intersect offers a statewide quit line through Indiana Tobacco Prevention and
Cessation (ITPC), where people can call to receive four free counseling sessions
from a trained counselor in order to quit smoking.

"We have worked with businesses including the City of Anderson and Red Gold to
train people to hold classes for their employees," Knight said. "In 2009 (and)
2010 we received quality of life grants to work with physicians, dentists and
anyone in the health field to refer to the quit line," Knight said.

She helped work with health service providers to implement the "two A's and R":
Ask at every visit if the patient uses tobacco, assess them if willing to quit
and refer them to either a pharmacy for medication.

"If a health provider encourages a patient to quit, they are twice as likely
to," she said. "Comprehensive smoke-free air laws show a decrease in adult
smoking rates."

Although Madison County ranked toward the bottom overall, the county did have a
few high marks, including a ranking of 27th for clinical care (down from last
year's rank of 20) and 33rd for physical environment.

"We inspire to be better," Tom Van Osdol, CEO of St. John's Hospital and Chair
of Madison Health Partners, said. "The movement from last year to this year
shows we are moving in the right direction."

Area hospitals like St. John's Hospital are recruiting primary and specialty
care physicians in addition to expanding with dialysis centers, oncology,
endocrinology and geriatrics.

"We need to close the patient-physician ratio gap," he said. "We need to get
people the help they need."

Beyond physician and specialty care recruitment, screening services and
assistance to those underinsured or not insured have increased.

"From my experience, I know you can 'lead a horse to water, but you can't make
it drink,'" Bill VanNess, M.D. and President/CEO Community Hospital Anderson,
said. "At Community, we offer weight management classes and programs for adults
and kids, routine free health screenings for our community, support groups and
educational classes, smoking cessation programs and countless other
opportunities for individuals to better their health."

VanNess added that it is the job of the hospital to offer these types of
opportunities and more to patients. The problem is that the hospital cannot
force a person to alter his or her choices and choose a healthier lifestyle.

Contact April Abernathy, 640-4861, april.abernathy@heraldbulletin.com

To see more of The Herald Bulletin, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.theheraldbulletin.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Herald Bulletin,
Anderson, Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110330-HU-Madison-County-ranks-low-for-health-0330-20110330

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HU


                       Copyright 2011 The Herald Bulletin

                              331 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                                   L2 Edition

How your hospital fared on state report card

BYLINE: By Robert McCoppin Health & Fitness Reporter rmccoppin@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words


Patients can compare rankings of Illinois hospitals for a wide range of
performance and cost measurements on a new Web site that debuted Thursday.

The Illinois Hospital Report Card, for the first time, ranks hospitals and
surgery centers based on quality of care, infections, complications, staffing
and cost, along with other criteria.

The site, by the Illinois Department of Public Health at
healthcarereportcard.illinois.gov or at idph.state.il.us, was so popular it
crashed twice before getting back up.

Consumers can choose which hospitals and which criteria they want to compare by
facility, county, or geographic radius.

A sampling of searches found some patterns.

Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove, for instance, ranked in the
top three among local hospitals in all three quality of care measures, which
rated how often a hospital followed recommended treatments for pneumonia, heart
attack and heart failure patients. Also in the top five in all quality of care
categories: St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates and Advocate Lutheran
General Hospital in Park Ridge.

Many hospitals struggled with patient satisfaction, with the rankings among
local hospitals ranging from 76 to 44 percent who were highly satisfied. Central
DuPage

Hospital in Winfield topped the list among local hospitals, while Adventist
GlenOaks in Glendale Heights came in lowest.

The national average for highly satisfied patients is 64 percent.

Jacqueline Conrad, chief nursing officer at Adventist GlenOaks in Glendale
Heights, noted that the survey results are a year old, and said her hospital has
made great strides trying to improve patient satisfaction since then.

GlenOaks started a program last year to build morale and engagement among
front-line caregivers, training employees to introduce themselves and describe
their background to patients, and explain any procedures they're about to go
through.

"We recognize the patients are at their most vulnerable when they come to a
hospital, and we want to reduce their anxiety," Conrad said.

Some criteria seem quirky but mean a lot to patients. Among the local hospitals,
Delnor Community in Geneva kept patient rooms the quietest at night and Centegra
Northern Illinois Medical Center in McHenry responded to call buttons most
consistently.

Advocate Good Shepherd Hospital in Barrington came up as the lowest cost among
local hospitals for numerous procedures. Advocate Condell in Libertyville often
came out on the top of the cost list.

So many factors go into cost, Good Shepherd spokesman Mike Deering said, it's
hard to explain why. But he said hospitals are very mindful of cost, avoiding
unnecessary stays and unnecessary tests, for instance.

The cost data on the site is probably the least useful, because most fees are
negotiated lower with insurers or patients, said Ian Jones, vice president for
clinical performance at Sherman Hospital in Elgin, which came in around the
middle of most cost comparisons for local hospitals.

In general, he said of the rankings, "Anything that sheds light on medical care
and outcomes that patients can access is a good thing."

Illinois was a pioneer when lawmakers directed the report card to be created in
2003, but the state now lags behind others. It took six years to work out
funding, staffing and logistics, Illinois Department of Public Health
spokeswoman Melaney Arnold said.

Hospitals report the information and have the opportunity to check it for
accuracy. Some categories, such as mortality rates, were not initially on the
site, but more items will be added as time goes on.

After years of operating in obscurity, hospitals are increasingly being judged
online at a variety of sites.

Also Thursday, at the national level, America's Health Rankings rated Illinois
29th among states for its overall health, crediting us for a high number of
primary care physicians, but dinging us for pollution and a high rate of binge
drinking.

Those rankings are based on community behavior, the environment, health policy
and clinical care.

The findings are published jointly by United Health Foundation, American Public
Health Association and the Partnership for Prevention.

Consumers also can find performance data at the Hospital Compare Site at the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and the Illinois Hospital
Association is working on a Web site to compile patient safety, satisfaction and
performance data.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              332 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday

Berkshire Medical Center earns top ratings for care

BYLINE: Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Headlines; Health

LENGTH: 477 words


PITTSFIELD -- Berkshire Medical Center has received five-star ratings and top
national rankings for clinical quality from HealthGrades, the leading
independent health care ratings organization.

The recognition is based on HealthGrades' 12th annual Hospital Quality in
America study, which analyzes patient outcomes at virtually all of the nation's
hospitals, using publicly available data.

In the 2010 HealthGrades ratings, BMC achieved national recognition for cardiac
services, pulmonary services, stroke services and critical care services. BMC
was honored with the 2010 Pulmonary Care Excellence Award, achieving a ranking
among the top 5 percent in the nation for pulmonary services, and the 2010
Stroke Care Excellence Award, ranking BMC among the top 10 percent in the nation
for stroke services.

"These accomplishments relate to important services for our community in areas
of care that our families and friends will likely need at some point in their
lives," said Diane Kelly, chief operating officer of BMC. "When we are
recognized for being the absolute best in an area like critical care, our
patients can be confident that the same level of commitment to high quality care
will be there for them in all of our services."

"It is clear from the continuing national recognition, as found in the latest
HealthGrades rankings, that patients of Berkshire Medical Center receive the
highest quality care, on a par with the best hospitals in the country," said
David Phelps, president and CEO of Berkshire Health Systems. "Berkshire Health
Systems is committed to providing best in the nation care to our community, with
leadership from the Board of Trustees and dedicated care from all of our
physicians, nurses and staff."

The HealthGrades study, the largest annual report of its kind, analyzed patient
outcomes in nearly 40 million Medicare hospitalization records from 5,000
hospitals over the years 2006, 2007 and 2008.

This year's study found:

n Across all 17 procedures and diagnoses in which mortality was studied, there
was an approximate 72 percent lower chance of dying in a five-star rated
hospital compared to a one-star rated hospital, and a 52 percent lower chance of
dying in a five-star hospital compared with the national average.

n If all hospitals performed at the level of a five-star rated hospital across
the 17 procedures and diagnoses studied, 224,537 Medicare lives could
potentially have been saved from 2006 through 2008.

HealthGrades' hospital ratings and awards reflect the track record of patient
outcomes at hospitals in the form of mortality and complication rates.
HealthGrades rates hospitals independently based on data that hospitals submit
to the federal government. No hospital can opt in or out of being rated, and no
hospital pays to be rated.

More information on the HealthGrades study, can be found at www.healthgrades.com
.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday

Primary named one of top children's hospitals in nation

BYLINE: By Lisa Rosetta The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 410 words


Primary Children's Medical Center was ranked among the top 30 children's
hospitals in the country based on a three-part mix of reputation, low death rate
and other care-related factors, according to U.S. News & World Report.

Children's hospitals, which in the past were lumped together with all other
hospitals in the news magazine's annual ranking, were examined in a stand-alone
report published in its Sept. 3 issue, which hit newsstands Monday.

The top three hospitals were Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Children's
Hospital Boston and Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.

Primary Children's - which was ranked 18th overall - received the highest score
of all children's hospitals in the category of death rate, meaning its mortality
rates for key procedures were lower than the 113 hospitals who responded to the
news magazine's survey.

Each hospital's mortality was ranked on a 0 to 6 point scale, based on the
mortality rates and the total number of key procedures. A 6 was the best score
possible, with 0 the worst. Primary Children's was the only children's hospital
receiving the full 6 points.

Among the procedures considered were heart and neurosurgery operations, as well
as bone marrow transplants. Hospitals had to meet a minimum volume requirement
for each procedure and achieve an acceptable death rate to receive points. Death
rate counted as one sixth of each hospital's score.

"This recognition in U.S. News and World Report confirms something that we've
known for years - that we have one of the best children's hospitals in the
country," said Primary Children's CEO Joe Mott in a news release. "But we are
most proud of our top ranking in lowest mortality rates."

The hospitals' scores for reputation were based on a survey of 100
board-certified pediatricians, adolescent medicine specialists and
neonatologists. Reputation counted as two thirds of each hospital's overall
score.

The care-related factors included factors such as volume, nursing care and
advanced technology. Care-related factors counted as one sixth of the score.

A medical facility was considered eligible for this year's rankings if
classified by the National Association of Children's Hospitals and Related
Institutions as a free-standing children's hospital or as a children's hospital
within a hospital - a large multidisciplinary pediatric service within a medical
center. In March, 122 hospitals met this standard, and 113 responded to the
survey.

lrosetta@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

Lehigh Valley Hospital, Lancaster General, and Reading Hospital earn high marks
in U.S. News annual survey

BYLINE: Matthew Nojiri, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 381 words


July 15--A few of the area's hospitals received high marks and were recognized
for providing some of the best specialty care in the nation, according to U.S.
News & World Report's Best Hospitals rankings released today.

The 25th annual report compiles data in 16 adult specialties for nearly 5,000
medical centers in the U.S. Nationally ranked hospitals received a gold
designation and high-performing hospitals just outside the national rank
received the silver grade.

Lehigh Valley Hospital near Allentown was among the region's best, ranking third
in the state. It was also nationally ranked for 10 of its adult specialties:
cardiology; diabetes endocrinology; ear nose and throat; gastroenterology;
geriatrics; gynecology; neurology; orthopedics; pulmonary; and urology.

Lancaster General Hospital was the fifth-best in Pennsylvania and was among the
nation's top-ranked hospitals in diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology;
orthopedics; and pulmonology. It also received high-performing marks in seven
other specialities.

Both Lehigh Valley and Lancaster General received the gold designation.

For the 2014-15 report, only 144 hospitals performed well enough to be
nationally ranked in one or more specialties.

Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center moved up three spots to 13th in the
state and had 10 high-performing specialties.

Reading Hospital was 24th in Pennsylvania, up 10 spots from last year. It
received high-performing marks for five of its specialties. Reading Hospital and
Penn State Hershey received the silver designation.

St. Joseph Medical Center was not ranked.

Officials from U.S. News & World Report say the annual rankings are designed to
help patients with serious conditions find hospitals that excel in treating
challenging cases.

The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center was the top hospital in
Pennsylvania, with 14 nationally ranked specialties and two high-performing
specialities.

Nationally, the top three hospitals were the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.,
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore, Md.

Contact Matthew Nojiri: 610-371-5062 or mnojiri@readingeagle.com

___ (c)2014 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140715-RE-Lehigh-Valley-Hospital-Lancaster-General-and-Reading-
Hospital-earn-high-marks-in-U-S-News-annual-survey-0715-20140715

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2014 Reading Eagle

                              335 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 27, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospital at Montefiore Marks a Decade of Recognition as One of the
Best in the Nation According To U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 524  words


June 27 -- For the tenth year in a row the Children's Hospital at Montefiore
(CHAM) ranks among the best in the nation according to U.S. News & World Report.
On the just-released list of Best Children's Hospitals in the United States,
CHAM places among the top 50 in Cancer, Diabetes & Endocrinology,
Gastroenterology & GI Surgery, Neonatology, Nephrology, Orthopedics and Urology.
CHAM continues to lead the way in providing highly-sophisticated care to
children and families from around the community, around the country and around
the world.

"Our talented pediatric specialists and exceptional care teams at CHAM are
renowned for providing high quality care to children with complex medical
needs," said Judy Aschner, M.D., physician-in-chief, CHAM, and Michael I. Cohen,
M.D., university chair and professor of pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine. "We are delighted to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report for our
excellent outcomes in multiple pediatric subspecialties and for delivery of
advanced, evidence-based therapies and care coordination for the children under
our care."

Among the specialties ranked at CHAM:

* Pediatric Cancer is ranked number 37 in the nation, reflecting strong quality
and outcomes data, including:

-Three times lower than the national average central line-associated bloodstream
infection rates.

-Over 90 percent of patients undergoing bone marrow transplant survive more than
100 days after therapy.

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery ranked number 30 in the nation this year,
demonstrating excellent outcomes with:

-100 percent one year and three year survival for liver transplant patients.

-Recognized success with complicated surgeries, including the Kasai procedure
for biliary atresia and complex endoscopy procedures.

* Orthopedics ranks number 23 - reflecting the high numbers of patients choosing
CHAM for their orthopedic surgery care and the excellent outcomes produced by
the team, particularly for scoliosis procedures.

* Diabetes & Endocrinology moves up, now ranking at number 42.

* Nephrology continues to be ranked in the top 25 year over year, this year
placing at number 24.

* Urology ranked number 41 in the nation.

* Neonatology also recognized in top 50 for outstanding patient safety and
outcomes.

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of children with rare or life-threatening illnesses find the best
medical care available. They are the only comprehensive source of
quality-related information on U.S. pediatric centers. The rankings rely on
clinical data and reviews generated by pediatric specialists who complete an
annual survey about their peers in the field. The rankings methodology considers
clinical outcomes, such as mortality and infection rates, efficiency and
coordination of care delivery and compliance with "best practices."

For more information about CHAM, go to http://www.cham.org. This year's rankings
will be published in the U.S. News & World Report's "Best Hospitals 2018"
guidebook and available on newsstands September 12. Visit Best Children's
Hospitals for the complete rankings.

Source: Montefiore Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 21, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Once Again Among US News & World Report's
Top Children's Hospitals

LENGTH: 362  words


June 21 -- The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) has once again ranked
among the country's finest in the 2016-17 U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll
of Best Children's Hospitals announced June 21. Eight of CHOP's clinical
programs ranked within the top three nationally in each of the 10 specialty
areas evaluated in the U.S. News survey.  CHOP ranked second overall on the
Honor Roll and is the only pediatric hospital in the tri-state region named to
the prestigious list.

The annual U.S. News rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of
these pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology.

"To be ranked among the top pediatric hospitals is an honor, which reflects our
commitment to provide the optimum care for every child and family we serve,"
said Madeline Bell, president and chief executive officer of The Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia. "The level of clinical excellence among the hospitals
evaluated makes our inclusion gratifying and I am proud of our dedicated and
talented physicians, nurses and clinical support staff for their efforts on
behalf of our patients," Bell said.

The U.S. News survey methodology combines clinical and operational data, results
from a reputational survey of board-certified pediatric specialists, and
supplemental information from resources such as the National Cancer Institute.
Most of the 183 facilities surveyed for the 2016-17 Best Children's Hospitals
rankings are either freestanding children's hospitals or a "hospital within a
hospital" - a large and essentially autonomous multidisciplinary pediatric
department within a major medical center. In the 2016-17 rankings, 78 of the 183
surveyed hospitals were ranked in one or more specialties. The Best Children's
Hospitals Honor Roll recognizes hospitals with scores in the top 10 percent in
at least three specialties. The 2016-17 Honor Roll lists 11 such hospitals.
Almost all are members of the Children's Hospital Association (CHA).

Source: Children's Hospital of Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 7, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Moffitt CEO Alan List Named to Becker's Hospital Review's 110 Physician Leaders
of Hospitals and Health Systems

LENGTH: 374  words


Sept. 7 -- For the second year in a row, Moffitt Cancer Center President and CEO
Alan F. List was named to Becker's Hospital Review's 110 Physician Leaders of
Hospitals and Health Systemslist. The 2016 edition features presidents and CEOs
of hospitals and health systems who also hold medical degrees.

"I am honored to be included on this list, which contains so many nationally
known leaders within the hospital community," says List, M.D. "It is a dynamic
group of individuals who are helping to define the future of our health care."

Each of the recipients has demonstrated outstanding leadership and clinical
expertise throughout their careers, leading initiatives to improve their
individual organizations and the health care of the communities they serve.

List is internationally recognized for his many contributions in the development
of novel, more effective treatment strategies for myelodysplastic syndromes
(MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). His pioneering work led to the
development of lenalidomide (Revlimid) from the laboratory to clinical trials,
which went on to receive fast-track designation from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and approval for the treatment of patients with MDS and multiple
myeloma.

This new ranking is just one of many accolades the cancer center has received as
it approaches its 30th anniversary. In early August, Moffitt was ranked No. 6 on
U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals for Cancer rankings. In March 2015,
Moffitt earned the prestigious nursing Magnet designation recognizing our
nursing excellence. Serving patients from all 50 states and more than 100
countries, Moffitt boasts patient outcomes that beat the national average.
Moffitt is one of 47 National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive Cancer
Centers and the only one based in Florida.

Additional accolades include the 2015 Working Mother 100 Best Companies national
list, No. 6 ranking on DiversityInc's 2016 Top 10 Hospitals and Health Systems
list, and the 2016 Leader in LGBT Healthcare Equality.

The Becker's Hospital Revieweditorial team selected hospitals for inclusion
based on editorial judgment and discretion, and nominations were considered when
making selections for this list.

Source: Moffitt Cancer Center

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 23, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Augusta Health Receives Two National Recognitions for its Value to its Community

LENGTH: 422  words


New Delhi, July 23 -- Augusta Health has recently been recognized by two
national organizations for its high quality care, service and value to the
community. Becker's Hospital Review featured Augusta Health on its annual "100
Great Community Hospitals" list. Additionally, based on its Community Value
Index score, Augusta Health ranked as a Community Value 100 Hospital-one of the
100 best hospitals in the nation for value to its community in the 10th annual
Community Value Index Study.



"Every physician and employee at Augusta Health is dedicated to providing the
best care possible with the most reasonable charges possible to their friends,
family and neighbors," said Mary N. Mannix, FACHE and CEO of Augusta Health.
"It's the foundation of being a community hospital. Our charges are the seventh
lowest in the state of Virginia, according to the 2012 Industry Report published
by Virginia Health Information. We are also extremely proud of the quality of
care we deliver, and grateful for the community who supports us by choosing us
to provide that care."

The Community Value Index score, calculated annually by Cleverley + Associates,
provides a relative ranking that benchmarks hospitals against hospitals in a
peer group by measuring four areas-hospital quality performance, financial
viability and plant reinvestment, hospital cost structure and hospital charge
structure. Fundamentally, the Community Value Index asserts that a hospital
provides value to its community when it provides high quality care to its
patients, is financially viable, is appropriately reinvesting back into the
facility, maintains a low cost structure and has reasonable charges.

Hospitals operating with a high Community Value Index are low cost, low charge,
and use their strong financial position to reinvest back into the provision of
quality care at their facility. Hospitals in the top 20% are designated
"Community Value Five Star" facilities, and the highest scoring hospitals in
this group are designated the "Community Value 100" hospitals. Augusta Health
received both designations.

Becker's "100 Great Community Hospitals" list includes hospitals with fewer than
550 beds that are dedicated to high quality care and service to the community.
The editorial team selects these community hospitals based on ranking and awards
from iVantage Health Analytics, Truven Health Analytics, HealthGrades and The
Joint Commission-all rankings of quality and service. Becker's notes that
hospitals do not pay and cannot pay to be included on the list.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              June 23, 2008 Monday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

HSN PUMPS UP NATIONAL ADS TO CREATE BUZZ

SECTION: TAMPA BAY; WORK WEEK; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 370 words


HSN's first national advertising campaign was credited with helping the network
"turn the corner" by luring new customers to see its new look last summer. So
the St. Petersburg TV shopping network is doing it again, this time buying or
bartering for twice the media exposure in a campaign being announced today. TV
spots will start airing Saturday on everything from Law and Order to the
Olympics, and print ads will appear in several Conde Nast fashion magazines. HSN
is staging a sweepstakes this time with more than $200,000 in prizes to people
who register online at hsn.com. The spot features a catchy tune by pop singer
Toby Lightman, whose CD will be sold on HSN. Prizes include dinner with Emeril
Lagasse at his New Orleans restaurant, a party for 10 organized by Oprah's home
entertainment guru Colin Cowie, and a $5,000 room makeover by decorator Nate
Berkus.

Get the rundown on hospital care

Watch for another set of hospital rankings Tuesday. The Healthcare Financial
Management Association has analyzed 1,500 hospitals nationwide by the relative
value of care they provide. Such rankings could affect hospital reimbursements,
as the federal government considers proposals to pay hospitals based on the
value of the care they provide. Results will be unveiled at the annual meeting
of the trade group, which includes hospital CFOs and controllers. The rankings
also will be available at www.hospitalvalueindex.com.

Jabil reports 3rd-quarter results

St. Petersburg electronics manufacturer Jabil Circuit will disclose
third-quarter earnings on Tuesday. CEO Tim Main will discuss results on a
Webcast at jabil.com at 4:30 p.m., a half-hour after releasing numbers.

Fed meets, but don't expect much

The Federal Reserve Board meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, but the betting is
that we won't seeaction on interest rates until August. With inflation
threatening, the next move is likely to be up. The Fed would like to see signs
that the economy is improving before putting a damper on borrowing with higher
rates.

This could spoil your appetite

Regions Financial chief economist Bob Allsbrook will talk about recession and
stagflation Wednesday at a Tampa Chamber of Commerce breakfast. Call (813)
276-9440 for information.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2008 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              July 8, 2005 Friday

Respiratory care at Grandview;
'U.S. News' also recognizes its neurosurgery

BYLINE: By Kevin Lamb klamb@DaytonDailyNews.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 267 words


DAYTON - Grandview Hospital and Medical Center is on U.S. News' 2005 Best
Hospitals list in two specialties, respiratory care and neurology-neurosurgery.

The magazine will publish its annual top-50 rankings in 17 specialties at
www.usnews.com/Besthospitals today and in its July 18 edition on sale Monday. No
other Dayton-area hospital is among the 176 medical centers to be listed.

Grandview ranks 44th in each specialty, its third consecutive year in U.S. News'
elite for respiratory care.

"Everybody has heard of this honor and patients use the Best Hospitals issue as
a reference tool," Grandview President Roy Chew said Thursday. "It really grows
our reputation across the country, and is something we will use in our physician
recruitment efforts."

Unlike some other hospital rankings, U.S. News does not require hospitals it
recognizes to pay application or licensing fees. It evaluates all 6,007
nongovernmental U.S. hospitals.

Criteria for the rankings include mortality rates, patient volume,
nurse-to-patient ratios, technology, patients' services and reputation, based on
surveys of board-certified physicians. The heavily weighted reputation scores
tend to favor hospitals in the large markets or those affiliated with
universities.

Grandview overcame its 0.0 percent reputation scores by having the lowest listed
mortality rate in neurology and neurosurgery, adjusted for patients' severity,
and the second-lowest in respiratory care.

Miami Valley Hospital went unrecognized this year after making 11 specialty
lists in the past three years. It had ranked between 24th and 33rd in
respiratory care.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              341 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                      August 4, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Names Hoag Among Best Hospitals

BYLINE: Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian

LENGTH: 528  words


Newport Beach, CA,  August 04, 2016 --(PR.com)-- Hoag Memorial Hospital
Presbyterian has been recognized as one of the best hospitals for 2016-17
according to U.S. News & World Report.

Hoag was ranked the 6th best hospital in the Los Angeles metro area and tied for
11th best hospital in California.

"We are honored to be recognized as one of the best hospitals by U.S. News &
World Report and be included in the rankings with the top health care
institutions across the country," said Robert T. Braithwaite, Hoag president and
CEO. "Thanks to the hard work and dedication of our physicians, nurses, staff
and volunteers, Hoag continues to deliver an unsurpassed level of personalized
care to the communities we serve."

Hoag's 2016-2017 rankings also included:

Ranked 34th nationally in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

High performing in three adult specialties, including Geriatrics, Pulmonology
and Urology

High performing in nine types of care, including Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm
Repair, Aortic Valve Surgery, Colon Cancer Surgery, COPD, Heart Bypass Surgery,
Heart Failure, Hip Replacement, Knee Replacement and Lung Cancer Surgery

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates, adequacy of nurse staffing and more.

To view the full rankings of U.S. News & World Report, visit Best Hospitals.

AboutBOUT Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian

Hoag is an approximately $1 billion nonprofit, regional health care delivery
network in Orange County, California, that treats more than 25,000 inpatients
and 369,000 outpatients annually. Hoag consists of two acute-care hospitals -
Hoag Hospital Newport Beach, which opened in 1952, and Hoag Hospital Irvine,
which opened in 2010 - in addition to seven health centers and nine urgent care
centers. Hoag is a designated Magnet hospital by the American Nurses
Credentialing Center (ANCC). Hoag offers a comprehensive blend of health care
services that includes five institutes providing specialized services in the
following areas: cancer, heart and vascular, neurosciences, women's health, and
orthopedics through Hoag's affiliate, Hoag Orthopedic Institute, which consists
of an orthopedic hospital and two ambulatory surgical centers. In 2013, Hoag
entered into an alliance with St. Joseph Health to further expand health care
services in the Orange County community, known as St. Joseph Hoag Health. Hoag
has been named one of the Best Regional Hospitals in the U.S. News & World
Report Metro Edition, and Becker's Hospital Review named Hoag as one of the 2016
"100 Great Hospitals in America" - a designation Hoag has received four times.
National Research Corporation has endorsed Hoag as Orange County's most
preferred hospital for the past 20 consecutive years and, for an unprecedented
20 years, residents of Orange County have chosen Hoag as one of the county's
best hospitals in a local newspaper survey. Visit www.hoag.org for more
information.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            December 13, 2002 Friday

Seven Rivers back on top hospital list

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 137 words

DATELINE: CRYSTAL RIVER


A health care information company once again has counted Seven Rivers Community
Hospital among the nation's top 100 hospitals.

The company, Illinois-based Solucient, bases its rankings on quality of care and
efficiency, among other factors. Data are analyzed in groups based on hospital
size and teaching status.

In 1999 the company, then known as HCIA-Sachs, included Seven Rivers as one of
the top 100 U.S. hospitals. A year later it counted Seven Rivers among the
nation's top 100 hospitals for treating stroke patients.

"I am extremely proud of our continuing accomplishments," said Don McKenna,
chief executive officer of the 128-bed hospital, in prepared remarks. "To think
that we are among the top 100 hospitals when compared to the nearly 6,000 across
the country - it's just a wonderful achievement."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company

                              343 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        JULY 10, 2000 Monday SF EDITION
                              Correction Appended

HUP RANKED 10TH-BEST HOSPITAL IN NATION BY MAGAZINE SURVEY SEVERAL PA. HOSPITALS
PLACED IN TOP 50 IN VARIOUS SPECIALTIES.

BYLINE: Stacey Burling, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FEATURES MAGAZINE: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. F04

LENGTH: 577 words


The Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania has been ranked No. 10 in U.S.
News & World Report's "Honor Roll" - the magazine's annual list of the country's
best hospitals.

Those are the 15 hospitals that do many things "exceptionally well," the
magazine reported in the issue due on newsstands today. Johns Hopkins Hospital
in Baltimore topped that group; the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
ranked 15th.

Several other Pennsylvania hospitals were ranked among the top 50 in the nation
for high performance in particular specialties. (HUP was noted for 13 of those.)

No New Jersey hospitals made any of the lists.

The rankings are based in equal measure on a hospital's reputation among
specialist physicians, patient mortality rates, and other information on
hospital services and resources garnered from a survey by the American Hospital
Association. Rankings on eye care, pediatrics, psychiatry and rehabilitation
were based solely on reputation.

HUP was among the magazine's top 50 hospitals in cancer (No. 12), digestive
disorders (10), ear/nose/throat (9), geriatrics (17), gynecology (19), hormonal
disorders (17), kidney disease (16), neurology and neurosurgery (7), orthopedics
(35), respiratory disorders (14), rheumatology (27), urology (16), and
psychiatry (14).

"The recognition of HUP as one of the nation's 'Honor Roll' hospitals is a
tribute to the dedication and commitment of its faculty and staff in providing
quality patient care," Peter G. Traber, CEO of the University of Pennsylvania
Health System and dean of the School of Medicine, said in a news release.

Other area hospitals, the specialties for which they were cited, and their rank
in the national report:

Albert Einstein Medical Center: rehabilitation (12) and urology (45).

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia: pediatrics (2).

Fox Chase Chancer Center: cancer (14).

Friends Hospital, Philadelphia: psychiatry (19).

Lehigh Valley Hospital: urology (44).

Pennsylvania Hospital, which is part of the Penn system: geriatrics (39),
gynecology (39), heart (50) and orthopedics (42).

St. Luke's Hospital, Bethlehem: heart (38).

Temple University Hospital: cancer (49), digestive disorders (22), heart (49),
hormonal disorders (33), neurology and neurosurgery (41), and respiratory
disorders (37).

Thomas Jefferson University Hospital: digestive disorders (36), ear/nose/throat
(32), geriatrics (24), gynecology (33), heart (18), orthopedics (30),
rehabilitation (10) and urology (31).

Wills Eye Hospital: eyes (3) and neurology and neurosurgery (42).

York Hospital: orthopedics (44).

Stacey Burling's e-mail address is sburling@phillynews.com

HOSPITAL RANKINGS Here are U.S. News & World Report's rankings of American
hospitals:

1. Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore.

2. Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

3. Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

4. Cleveland Clinic.

5. UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles.

6. Duke University Medical Center, Durham, N.C.

7. Stanford University Hospital, Stanford, Calif.

8. (tie) Barnes-Jewish Hospital, St. Louis.

8. (tie) Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston.

10. Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

11. University of California, San Francisco Medical Center.

12. University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor.

13. University of Chicago Hospitals.

14. University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle.

15. University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Local hospitals earn above average ratings

BYLINE: Christena T. O'Brien, Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words


Apr. 22--The federal government's latest survey of hospital patients is out, and
for the first time, the ratings are available for all Chippewa Valley hospitals.

Ranked highest for overall patient satisfaction was OakLeaf Surgical Hospital.
Among full-service hospitals, Luther Midelfort, St. Joseph's Hospital, Red Cedar
Medical Center and Sacred Heart Hospital also received overall scores above the
statewide and national averages.

The rankings, available on Medicare's "Hospital Compare" Web site, are based on
patient surveys required by the federal government. The surveys gauge how well
doctors and nurses communicate, whether patients believe they received help in a
timely manner, and whether they would recommend a hospital to others.

Of the five local facilities, 97 percent of patients responding to the survey
said they'd recommend OakLeaf; 79 percent of Luther Midelfort patients, 78
percent of Sacred Heart patients, 76 percent of St. Joseph's patients and 73
percent of Red Cedar's patients reported the same.

Michael McClain, chief executive officer of OakLeaf, was pleased with the
surgical hospital's scores.

"I think patient satisfaction is one of the areas specialty hospitals excel in,"
he said.

"Here, the one thing we focus on very heavily is the patient experience,"
McClain said. "We're smaller, so I think we can respond to patients' needs
better."

That said, unlike full-service hospitals, OakLeaf solely focuses on surgery
patients, he noted.

The results of the patient surveys were first released by some hospitals,
including Luther Midelfort, last year. The government required all hospitals to
disclose their survey results this year.

The surveys are limited only to patients requiring an overnight stay.

"Overall, I was impressed with the overall scores for our community," said Pam
Prissel, Luther Midelfort director of customer service. "I think we're fortunate
to have good health care in the Chippewa Valley."

That said, officials at Luther Midelfort are always looking for ways to improve.

"We know it's not always a patient's first choice to come to a medical facility,
so we're always trying to make the experience the best it can be," she said.

In some cases, specific measures such as the percentage of surgery patients
given the right antibiotic at the right time might be important but not relevant
to most people. In others, the rankings can be confusing.

A study published late last year in Health Affairs, a policy journal, found that
the rankings vary widely. Even in the same market, a hospital near the top in
one ranking might be near the bottom in another.

Still, the Health Affairs study noted that patients want to know about other
patients' experiences: Did patients receive help quickly from the staff? Was
their pain well-controlled? Did the staff explain what a medication was for?

Those are among the 10 measures of patient satisfaction available on the "
Hospital Compare" site.

Hospitals have long surveyed patients on what they thought of their care. But
using those results as a gauge of hospital quality and disclosing them publicly
represent a cultural change.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

To see more of the Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadertelegram.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire,
Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090422-EW-HOSPITALS-RATINGS-20090422

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                                 Copyright 2009

                              345 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            October 26, 2004 Tuesday

St. John's ranked in nation's top 100 for heart care

BYLINE: DEAN OLSEN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MARKETPLACE; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 591 words


St. John's Hospital is one of the nation's 100 best hospitals for cardiovascular
care, an Evanston-based health-care information company said Monday.

The ranking from Solucient follows recent five-star ratings for heart care for
St. John's from HealthGrades, another company that helps hospitals analyze their
ability to provide high-quality care. "This latest recognition underscores the
fact that our patients have access to health care that is among the best in the
nation," St. John's executive vice president Richard Carlson said in a news
release.

"With cardiovascular disease as the nation's No. 1 killer, it's reassuring to
know that the residents of downstate Illinois can turn to Prairie Heart
Institute at St. John's Hospital for some of the best care in the country for
treating heart disease."

St. John's was the only hospital in Illinois outside the Chicago area to land on
the top 100 list.

"Prairie prides itself on maintaining a value base of excellence, which ensures
our patients do well not only while in the hospital, but as they return to an
active lifestyle at home," Prairie Heart Institute executive director Jim Zito
said in the news release.

Unlike with some health-care award programs, hospitals do not pay any money to
be considered for the Solucient ranking. The company analyzes hospitals
nationwide using data that hospitals generate when caring for Medicare patients.

Monday's rankings were based on Medicare data from 2002 and 2003.

St. John's last placed among the top 100 hospitals for heart care in 1999.

Memorial Medical Center wasn't in this year's group and has not placed in the
top 100 since Solucient began the ranking six years ago.

"We don't know why we weren't scored in there," said Michael Schroyer,
Memorial's executive director of cardiac and vascular services, noting that
Memorial has received five-star ratings from HealthGrades in the past.

Memorial runs a heart program that is smaller than the one at St. John's, but
Memorial's still is one of the largest programs in the state.

Schroyer noted that most of the cardiologists who provide heart care at both
hospitals are members of the same physician group practice, and Springfield's
heart surgeons practice at both hospitals.

"We feel that St. John's has a great program down the street, and so do we,"
Schroyer said. "Springfield's very fortunate to have two top-quality heart
programs."

Solucient says it scores hospitals on factors such as death rates, medical
complications and length of stay for patients undergoing various types of heart
surgery, as well as conditions such as heart attack and congestive heart
failure.

The company also applies mathematical formulas to adjust for variations between
hospitals in the level of illness among their patients.

Solucient then compares each hospital's performance to the performance of their
"peer" hospitals. The company doesn't reveal which of the top 100 hospitals
perform the best overall. Instead, it breaks down the top hospitals into three
categories.

St. John's was one of 40 top-ranked institutions that are "teaching hospitals" -
meaning they help to train young doctors in residency programs - but don't offer
specific training programs in cardiovascular care.

Other hospitals in the group containing St. John's included St. James Hospital
and Health Centers in Olympia Fields, and hospitals in Des Moines, Iowa, San
Diego, Baltimore, Phoenix and Salt Lake City.

More information on Solucient's rankings is available at
www.100tophospitals.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LOCAL

                   Copyright 2004 The State Journal-Register

                              346 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                           Long Island Business News

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

LI children's hospital again ranks among country's best

BYLINE: LIBN Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 310  words


Northwell Health's Cohen Children's Medical Center has achieved its highest-ever
rankings as one of the nation's top children's hospitals.

The New Hyde Park medical center earned top 50 national rankings for exceptional
care in nine pediatric specialties, according to US News & World Report's
2017-18 Best Children's Hospitals.

It's the 11th consecutive year that the Cohen complex has been listed among the
country's best by US News. Cohen's rankings jumped in nearly all seven specialty
areas in which it was ranked last year and landed on the top-50 list in two new
clinical disciplines, diabetes/endocrinology (36th nationally) and nephrology
(45th), according to a Northwell Health statement. US News ranked Cohen ninth in
the nation for its expertise in pediatric urology. In the area of pediatric
cancer, Cohen's national ranking rose from 43rd to 20th.

Cohen also saw its rankings improve from 29th to 19th in neonatology, from 39th
to 23rd in neurology/neurosurgery, from 40th to 25th in pulmonology, and from
40th to 35th in orthopedics. The hospital also ranked 39th nationally in
gastroenterology/GI surgery in the US News report.

"US News' latest survey results underscore the progress we've made in improving
clinical outcomes, especially in the area of cancer where we have built a team
of nationally recognized, pediatric hematologists and oncologists with both
clinical and research expertise," Dr. Charles Schleien, Cohen's executive
director and senior vice president and executive director of pediatric services
at Northwell Health, said in the statement.

Founded in 1983, the 202-bed Cohen Children's Medical Center is dedicated
exclusively to the care of children and is the largest provider of pediatric
health services in New York State.

Click here for more from this resource.

Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media.  All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     August 6, 1996, Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Emory ranked among best research facilities

BYLINE: Ann Hardie; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 08C

LENGTH: 350 words


Emory University Hospital is among the nation's top research facilities in the
fields of cardiology, ophthalmology and urology, according to the current issue
of U.S. News & World Report.

"It's gratifying to see Emory's accomplishments recognized yet again," said Dr.
Michael Johns, head of the Emory's health care system. "But we won't be
satisfied until we are in the top 10 of the majority of our programs."

Emory is the only Georgia hospital near the top of any of 16 specialties
analyzed by the magazine. The Medical College of Georgia, which has appeared in
previous years in the specialities of neurology and endocrinology, was absent
this time around.

"Nothing has changed about our organization or operation except to improve it,"
said Pat Sodomka, the Medical College's executive director.

The magazine was quick to say that the lists in the fields ranging from AIDS to
geriatrics are not an indication of a hospital's worthiness, but rather a tool
for consumers shopping for health care.

"Not to be on one of these lists does not mean that a hospital is substandard in
any respect," said Avery Comarow, editor of "America's Best Hospitals," featured
in the August 12th issue.

The magazine, which has been ranking hospitals since 1990, this year considered
1,961 comprehensive, major medical centers with teaching and research
components.

In 12 specialties, reputation among specialists, death rate and other medical
data each accounted for one-third of a hospital's score.

The top 42 institutions - representing the top 3 percent in the nation - are
published in the magazine.

Emory was ranked sixth in cardiology, up from eight last year, and 22nd in
urology.

The remaining four specialities - ophthalmology, psychiatry, pediatrics and
rehabilitation - were ranked solely on reputation. Emory was listed 14th in
ophthalmology.

Duke University was the only Southeast hospital to make the magazine's "honor
roll" of 16 institutions ranking in the top 10 of at least three of the
specialties. Johns Hopkins for the sixth straight year ranked No. 1 nationwide.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution

                              348 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              March 2, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Trustees seek to conceal test results; Minister asked to mask FSA data to
prevent Fraser Institute from compiling annual report card

BYLINE: Mary Frances Hill, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 591  words


B.C. school trustees are asking Education Minister Shirley Bond to take steps to
prevent the Fraser Institute from using annual test results in its controversial
ranking of elementary schools.

Trustees want the minister to disguise results of the Foundation Skills
Assessment tests, or FSAs, to prevent what some consider the misuse of the
information by the conservative think-tank.

"We're talking about masking numbers so that they aren't used for any purpose
they aren't intended for," said B.C. School Trustees Association president
Connie Denesiuk.

BCSTA members at a provincial council meeting Saturday voted unanimously to ask
the education ministry to "revise its policy relating to the release of
assessment data sets, specifically the FSA results to external bodies such as
the Fraser Institute, so that access for the purposes of ranking or
identification of schools is no longer allowed."

Mike Lombardi, a trustee who attended the meeting on behalf of the Vancouver
board of education, said BCSTA members suggested that Bond follow the example of
Health Minister George Abbott's policy on hospital rankings.

Last February, the Fraser Institute issued its first B.C. Hospital Report Card
to rank nearly 100 acute-care facilities.

The government and health authorities refused to divulge the names of hospitals
checked for 39 quality indicators, meaning hospitals were identified by numbers
only.

"Abbott had enough gumption to stand up and say, 'We're not going to allow our
hospital care to be abused and misused with inappropriate information,'" said
Lombardi.

Peter Cowley, director of school performance studies at the Fraser Institute,
which posts elementary school rankings online, said the BCSTA move shows it has
no interest in either improving performance by comparing schools or being
accountable to taxpayers.

"These people are saying, 'Let's take the taxpayers' money from a public
enterprise, and not tell them about the results.' "

Parents often use the rankings on the Fraser Institute's website to choose and
compare among schools, paying attention to data including FSA results, average
income of parents, and populations of ESL and special needs students, Cowley
said.

Bond didn't comment on whether she would move to mask the FSA results, but said
B.C. can't control what happens to the information once it's released.

She said her ministry is concerned about the way the Fraser Institute conducts
its research.

"We continue to be concerned that the Fraser Institute reports tell only part of
the story," Bond said.

"The [Fraser Institute's] 2008 report for elementary schools ignores other
important information such as demographics, school programs and other forms of
student achievement data."

The education ministry's own website states that "attempting to rank schools or
districts based on FSA results invites misleading comparisons that ignore the
particular circumstances that affect achievement in each school."

Though the wording of the BCSTA resolution referred to masking FSA results to
"outside bodies such as the Fraser Institute," Lombardi admitted the debate was
focused squarely on the organization's use of the FSA results.

The FSA tests are widely used by academics and other interest groups.

In an opinion piece for The Vancouver Sun, Simon Fraser University public policy
professor John Richards said FSA tests are integral to research.

"The tests ... allow researchers to track students through the educational
system. B.C.'s FSA data are among the best educational research data in Canada."

mfhill@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Grand Haven Tribune, Mich.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 27, 2016 Wednesday

NOCH gets 'A' in safety

BYLINE: Marie Havenga, Grand Haven Tribune, Mich.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 585 words


April 27--North Ottawa Community Hospital is an "A" student when it comes to
safety, according to the rankings of a national organization.

The Leapfrog Group's Spring 2016 Hospital Safety Score update assigned letter
grades to more than 2,500 U.S. hospitals, assessing medical errors, accidents,
injuries and infections.

The study also found that patients in lower-ranking hospitals nationwide have a
much greater risk of avoidable death when compared to "A" hospitals -- 9 percent
higher in "B" grade hospitals, 35 percent in "C" hospitals, and an astounding 50
percent higher in "D" And "F" hospitals.

Of the 2,751 hospitals in the study, 798 received an "A," 639 a "B," 957 a "C",
162 a "D" and 15 got an "F."

Last fall, the Leapfrog Group gave NOCH a "B" grade.

The ratings are based on patient experience, hospital-acquired conditions and
outcome data.

"It just reinforces that North Ottawa Community Hospital is a presence in the
community as a provider of high-quality health care," said Susan McKinnon,
director of quality for the Grand Haven hospital. "We are and continue to be a
reliable, high-quality source for health care in our community. But there's
always opportunity for improvement. Even getting an 'A' you don't want to rest
on your laurels."

NOCH scored high in doctor communication skills -- 84 percent of patients
surveyed said their doctors always communicated well, above the 81 percent state
average and 82 percent national average.

Ninety percent of patients reported they were were always given information on
what to do while recovering at home. The state average is 88 percent and the
national average is 86.

More than 81 percent of NOCH patients said their nurses communicated well. That
state average is 81 percent and the national average is 79.

The Family Birthing Unit also scored well.

NOCH's rankings show potential need for improvement in the areas of care
transitions (51 percent reported positive results, a tick below the 52 percent
state and national averages) and in explaining medicines before patients took
them (60 percent positive rankings, compared to 64 percent in the state and 65
nationally).

"Even though we excelled in areas, we don't want to lose our traction there
because we always have the opportunity to improve," McKinnon said.

McKinnon said a community hospital atmosphere leads to more personalized
service.

"If you look at our employee base, many of these employees live in the
community," she said. "The patients our employees are taking care of are their
friends, their neighbors, the people they see at church, at the grocery store,
the people who sit beside them at music at the park. It really is a community
hospital. I think that plays a big part."

McKinnon said she's most proud of the patient experience data.

"That truly is the patients reporting how they felt their care was delivered in
the organization," she said. "It's not just the doctors, it's not just the
nurses, it's everyone -- right down to how clean your room was. ... It's nice to
be recognized for the work that you do."

Jen VanSkiver, chief communications officer for the North Ottawa Community
Health System, said she is also proud of the recognition.

"We're pretty jazzed about it," she said. "We're delighted, of course, because
it does reflect lots of work and lots of people rowing in the right direction."

___ (c)2016 the Grand Haven Tribune (Grand Haven, Mich.) Visit the Grand Haven
Tribune (Grand Haven, Mich.) at www.grandhaventribune.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160427-NA-NOCH-gets-A-in-safety-0427-20160427

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NA


                   Copyright 2016 Grand Haven Tribune, Mich.

                              350 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Record-Eagle (Traverse City, Michigan)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 3, 2010 Friday

BRIEF: Munson tops bypass surgery rankings

BYLINE: The Record-Eagle, Traverse City, Mich.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 251 words


Dec. 03--TRAVERSE CITY -- Munson Medical Center is the best place in the country
for coronary bypass surgery, according to a medical rating service.

The ranking is by CareChex, part of the Delta Group, a company that compares
hospital and physician care to national, state and local standards. Data
included safety, quality, mortality, complication and patient satisfaction
scores.

Munson's score was in the 99.9th percentile for coronary bypass surgery.

Thomson Reuters, a national health care and information services organization,
also put Munson in the top 50 hospitals nationwide for cardiac care. It's the
seventh time the hospital has been recognized.

Munson is one of five hospitals in Michigan in the top 50. Thompson Reuters
evaluated 1,022 hospitals.

The Thomson Reuters study shows that 96 percent of cardiovascular patients at
Munson survive and approximately 93 percent remain complication free.

Both ratings follow an October Consumer Reports magazine report that listed
Cardiothoracic Surgeons of Grand Traverse as among the 50 top-rated heart bypass
surgical groups in the nation.

More than 4,000 cardiac patients are treated annually at Munson.

To see more of The Record-Eagle or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.record-eagle.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Record-Eagle, Traverse
City, Mich. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101203-ZK-BRF-Munson-tops-bypass-surgery-rankings-20101203

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZK


                        Copyright 2010 The Record-Eagle

                              351 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Tribune-Star (Terre Haute, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday

Magazine ranks Union Hospital nationally among best hospitals to work for

BYLINE: Brian Boyce, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


Sept. 08--TERRE HAUTE -- Union Hospital's ranking as a top national-level
employer wasn't a surprise to the employees who made it so, but definitely an
honor.

And Jamie Gregory was quick to answer that she's not looking to change employers
any time soon.

The registered nurse now in her 10th year at Union Hospital was among those
celebrating the facility's most recent accolade, being named one of the "Best
Places to Work in Health Care 2010" by Modern Healthcare Magazine. Union
Hospital ranks among the nation's top 100 facilities, according to the
publication's study, and specific rankings will be released Oct. 25.

Interim CEO Scott Teffeteller made the announcement Tuesday afternoon inside the
hospital's employee breakroom to a crowd of enthusiasts.

"It's a great honor for Union Hospital to be rated among the best," he said.

There are approximately 6,000 hospitals in America, he said after the
announcement, adding that Modern Healthcare Magazine is one of the nation's
largest trade publications for the industry. The rankings are based on employee
surveys measuring facility leadership, training and overall culture, he said.

Union Hospital has been named one of Indiana's best employers on numerous
occasions, he said. But this study marks the first time the hospital has
received a national ranking.

"It just continues to elevate our community," he said, noting the recent
announcement proclaiming Terre Haute as the Indiana Chamber of Commerce's
Community of the Year. "It will help us recruit the absolute best physicians. It
will help us recruit the absolute best staff."

Sally Zuel, vice president of human resources, said it's particularly important
to note that the facility's employees gave their employer this award.

"We are really thrilled," she said. "Our employees are the heart of Union
Hospital."

With nearly 2,400 employees, it's tough to keep everyone happy, she said. But
the facility strives to offer programs which benefit all segments of its
community. From onsite exercise facilities and programs to employee picnics,
longevity awards and achievement recognition, Zuel attributed "multiple
initiatives" as the cause of their worker satisfaction.

"When you look at Union Hospital, you're really talking about family," she said.

Both Zuel and Teffeteller said employee satisfaction is important, because happy
employees are more productive.

"The real winners are our families, our neighbors and our friends who continue
to receive wonderful health care," Teffeteller said.

Gregory, an Indiana State University and Terre Haute North Vigo High School
alumnus, said Union is the only hospital at which she's ever worked, and she has
no plans of leaving.

"I think it's great," she said of the award. "I've worked here 10 years and I
really enjoy working here."

Gregory attributed her overall satisfaction to good management, good colleagues
and a positive atmosphere. "I think we take excellent care of people. Patient
care is great," she said.

The top 100 hospitals will be individually ranked Oct. 25. For more information,
visit www.modernhealthcare.com.

Brian Boyce can be reached at brian.boyce@tribstar.com or 812-231-4253.

To see more of The Tribune-Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute,
Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100908-TX-Magazine-ranks-Union-Hospital-nationally-among-best-
hospitals-to-work-for-0908-20100908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TX


                        Copyright 2010 The Tribune-Star

                              352 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Border Mail

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Staff lift rates of satisfaction

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 186 words


AN overcrowded emergency department and lengthening elective surgery waiting
lists are believed to be among the reasons why the public satisfaction rate with
the Albury hospital ranks the second lowest among hospitals of a similar size.

Albury received a score of 74.2 out of 100 in an annual report recording the
experiences of public patients.

Albury Wodonga Health chief Dr Stuart Spring believes the result in the "good to
very good" category has been achieved in spite of the problems experienced by
the health service.

He credits the work of medical staff at the hospital in helping the hospital to
its ranking.

There is good news for other public hospitals in the region with Wodonga scoring
79.3, while Northeast Health Wangaratta's score of 82 placed them in the "very
good to excellent" category, ranking them among the leaders across Victoria.

The value of quality staff and the provision of care to patients coupled with
respect has been highlighted in the good results achieved by the region's
leading hospitals.

Attention to issues at Albury will go a long way to lifting its satisfaction
ranking in the future.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                              March 2, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Trustees want school rankings disguised

BYLINE: Mary Frances Hill, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 534  words


B.C. school trustees are asking Education Minister Shirley Bond to take steps to
prevent the Fraser Institute from using annual test results in its controversial
ranking of elementary schools.

Trustees want the minister to disguise results of the Foundation Skills
Assessment tests, or FSAs, to prevent what some consider the misuse of the
information by the right-wing think-tank.

"We're talking about masking numbers so that they aren't used for any purpose
they aren't intended for," said B.C. School Trustees Association president
Connie Denesiuk.

BCSTA members at a provincial council meeting Saturday voted unanimously to ask
the Education Ministry to "revise its policy relating to the release of
assessment data sets, specifically the FSA results to external bodies such as
the Fraser Institute, so that access for the purposes of ranking or
identification of schools is no longer allowed."

Mike Lombardi, a trustee who attended the meeting on behalf of the Vancouver
board of education, said BCSTA members suggested that Bond follow the example of
Health Minister George Abbott's policy on hospital rankings.

Last February, the Fraser Institute issued its first B.C. Hospital Report Card
to rank nearly 100 acute-care facilities.

The government and health authorities refused to divulge the names of hospitals
checked for 39 quality indicators, meaning hospitals were identified by numbers
only.

"Abbott had enough gumption to stand up and say, 'We're not going to allow our
hospital care to be abused and misused with inappropriate information,'" said
Lombardi.

Peter Cowley, director of school performance studies at the Fraser Institute,
which posts elementary school rankings online, said the BCSTA move shows it has
no interest in either improving performance by comparing schools or being
accountable to taxpayers.

"These people are saying, 'Let's take the taxpayers' money from a public
enterprise, and not tell them about the results.'"

Parents often use the rankings on the Fraser Institute's website to choose and
compare among schools, paying attention to data including FSA results, average
income of parents, and populations of ESL and special needs students, Cowley
said.

Bond didn't comment on whether she would move to mask the FSA results, but said
B.C. can't control what happens to the information once it's released.

She said her ministry is concerned about the way the Fraser Institute conducts
its research.

"We continue to be concerned that the Fraser Institute reports tell only part of
the story," Bond said.

"The Fraser Institute's 2008 report for elementary schools ignores other
important information such as demographics, school programs and other forms of
student achievement data."

The Education Ministry's own website states that "attempting to rank schools or
districts based on FSA results invites misleading comparisons that ignore the
particular circumstances that affect achievement in each school."

Though the wording of the BCSTA resolution referred to masking FSA results to
"outside bodies such as the Fraser Institute," Lombardi said the debate was
focused on the organization's use of the FSA results.

The FSA tests are widely used by academics and other interest groups.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Bond ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Lehigh Valley Business

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest ranks nationally in U.S. News report others
receive high-performing marks

BYLINE: Stacy Wescoe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 362  words


It also was ranked as high performing for the nine areas the report tracks -
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart bypass surgery,
heart failure, colon cancer surgery, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hip
replacement, knee replacement and lung cancer surgery.

The hospital also ranked as No. 5 in the state of Pennsylvania. It was the only
hospital in the Greater Lehigh Valley to receive a national ranking.

St. Luke's University Hospital-Bethlehem was rated as high performing in seven
areas: abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart bypass
surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, and lung cancer surgery. It was ranked as No. 7 hospital in the state.

Lehigh Valley Hospital-Muhlenberg was ranked as high performing in three areas:
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart failure and colon cancer surgery.

U.S. News & World Report on Tuesday released the 2017-18 Best Hospitals rankings
. In their 28th year, the rankings and ratings compare more than 4,500 medical
centers nationwide in 25 specialties, procedures and conditions.

Coordinated Health Bethlehem was ranked as high performing in two areas, hip
replacement and knee replacement. Coordinated Health's Surgical Specialty Center
in Allentown was ranked as high performing in knee replacement.

St. Luke's Hospital-Warren was ranked as high performing in one area, heart
failure.

Grand View Hospital in Sellersville was ranked as high performing in one area,
knee replacement.

Doylestown Hospital was ranked as high performing in three areas: heart failure,
knee replacement and hip replacement.

The U.S. News methodologies in most areas of care are based largely on objective
measures such as risk-adjusted survival and readmission rates, volume, patient
experience, patient safety and quality of nursing, among other care-related
indicators.

View the full article from Lehigh Valley Business at
http://www.lvb.com/article/20170809/LVB01/170809861/lehigh-valley-hospitalcedar-
crest-ranks-nationally-in-us-news-report-others-receive-highperforming-marks.
Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 998 DOCUMENTS


              San Gabriel Valley Tribune (West Covina, California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 6, 2007 Tuesday

Web site grades hospitals on quality of care, satisfaction

BYLINE: Kevin Smith, San Gabriel Valley Tribune, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


Mar. 6--Finding a good plumber or mechanic can be relatively easy. You ask
around, evaluate word-of-mouth references and get some estimates.

But how do you go about selecting the best hospital for your maternity stay or
heart bypass surgery?

Beginning today, CalHospitalCompare.org is hoping to make the choice a little
easier.

The Web site -- the result of a partnership between the California HealthCare
Foundation, UC San Francisco Institute for Health Policy Studies, and California
Hospitals Assessment and Reporting Taskforce -- offers comprehensive information
on more than 200 hospitals, representing 70 percent of all hospital admissions
in the state.

Hospitals are rated on 50 performance indicators, including patient satisfaction
and specific conditions ranging from maternity services to heart disease
treatment.

"We worked with consumer focus groups to make sure we designed the Web display
in a way that would work for patients and families," said Maribeth Shannon, who
directs the Market and Policy Monitor program for the California HealthCare
Foundation. "The benefit of this Web site is that it encourages improvement in
hospitals."

Huntington Hospital in Pasadena earned an average quality-of-care rating for
treatment of heart attack and superior rankings in the areas of patient
satisfaction and timeliness of care.

Seventy-eight percent of heart attack patients indicated they would recommend
the hospital.

In the maternity patient satisfaction category, 91 percent of patients said they
would recommend Huntington Memorial.

Kaiser Permanente Baldwin Park Medical Center garnered an above-average rating
in the quality-of-care category for heart attack and a superior medical patient
satisfaction ranking.

Alhambra Hospital Medical Center didn't fare as well, with a poor
quality-of-care rating under heart attack treatment.

However, the Alhambra center received a superior quality-of-care ranking for
treatment of pneumonia.

R. Adams Dudley, associate professor of medicine and health policy at UC San
Francisco and project director for the Institute for Health Policy Studies, said
the Web site ratings are adjusted for differences in the patient mix.

"When you do patient surveys, for example, maternity patients are always happier
than other types of patients," he said. "We corrected for that."

Surgical patients likewise tend to be happier than medical patients because
"when they leave the hospital they go home with their problem fixed," Dudley
said.

Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier nabbed a superior rating for
heart attack care and a superior patient satisfaction ranking.

To see more of the San Gabriel Valley Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper,
go to http://www.sgvtribune.com. Copyright (c) 2007, San Gabriel Valley Tribune,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070306-GB-HOSPITAL-RATINGS-20070306

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GB


                   Copyright 2007 San Gabriel Valley Tribune

                              356 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Lima News (Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday

Lima Memorial top hospital for infection prevention

BYLINE: John Bush, The Lima News, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 520 words


Aug. 11--LIMA -- Lima Memorial Health System has been rated one of the best
hospitals in the United States for infection prevention.

A recent study by Consumer Reports revealed Lima Memorial is one of nine
hospitals in the U.S. that achieved the magazine's top ranking in avoiding
bacteria known as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium
difficile, as well as three other infections. Lima Memorial was also the only
hospital in the Midwest to achieve this ranking.

"It's quite gratifying," said Dr. Wilfred Ellis, chairman of infection control
at Lima Memorial. "A great amount of effort has taken place at the hospital in
preventing infection, and I take great pride in that."

The ranking is based on data hospitals reported to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention between October 2013 and September 2014. Hospitals who
achieved the highest ranking successfully eliminated infections from MRSA, and
C-diff, along with surgical-site infections and infections associated with
urinary-tract and central-line catheters.

Ellis said Lima Memorial's ability to successfully fight infection is a "group
effort" among hospital staff and administration.

"We have to work together in order to institute policies which we have developed
over the course of time and with trial and error," he said. "We work
tremendously well as a team, and we address problems when they come up in an
effective manner."

A policy Ellis said has been extremely effective is the antibiotic stewardship
program, which is meant to ensure patients get the right drug at the right time
and with the proper dose.

"The most important cause of antibiotic resistance is the overuse of
antibiotics," Ellis said. "They are very potent tools for fighting infection,
but when they're overused, they're also the sources of resistance."

Ellis said antibiotic stewardship allows the hospital's infection control staff
to monitor the use of antibiotics and adjust the usage so that it is
appropriate.

"That's been an excellent program that's made us much better over the last
several years," he said.

Ellis said one of the biggest ways to fight infection in a hospital like Lima
Memorial is to simply practice proper hand-washing techniques. Though it may
seem simple, Ellis said it is vital in preventing the spread of infection.

"The No. 1 approach to prevention of infection is careful hand-washing," he
said. "We have hand-washing stations all throughout the hospital."

Going forward, Ellis said Lima Memorial will continue to be one of the country's
top hospitals for infection prevention if the staff stays vigilant and the
administration continues to implement effective policies.

New technology will also play a role, Ellis said, as the hospital will soon be
receiving a germ-eliminating robot that uses ultraviolet rays to fight bacteria
that cause infection. The robot, known as the Tru-D SmartUVC, will be arriving
at Lima Memorial within two weeks.

Reach John Bush at 567-242-0456 or on Twitter @bush_lima.

___ (c)2015 The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) Visit The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) at
www.limaohio.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150811-LM-Lima-Memorial-top-hospital
-for-infection-prevention-0811-20150811

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LM


                          Copyright 2015 The Lima News

                              357 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

2 Pennsylvania hospitals ranked among top 20 in U.S.

BYLINE: Matthew Nojiri, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 502 words


Aug. 02--Two Pennsylvania hospitals were among the best in the country,
according to the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings released Tuesday.

Among the 20 "Honor Roll" hospitals in the U.S., the Hospitals of the University
of Pennsylvania-Penn Presbyterian in Philadelphia was ninth and the University
of Pittsburgh Medical Center Presbyterian-Shadyside moved up a position from
last year to 12th.

The 27th annual rankings compare nearly 5,000 medical centers across the country
in 25 specialties, procedures and conditions. The rankings adjust for factors
such as income and credit hospitals that make data public in cardiology and
heart surgery.

"We strive to provide patients with the highest-quality information on hospitals
available," Ben Harder, chief of health analysis at U.S. News, said in a
statement. "Driving for broader transparency and evaluating hospitals in a
comprehensive, fair way reflects that mission."

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., topped the list, followed by the Cleveland
Clinic in Ohio and Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

Thomas Jefferson University hospital ranked third in Pennsylvania followed by
Lehigh Valley Hospital near Allentown, Lancaster General Hospital and Penn State
Milton S. Hershey Medical Center.

Reading Hospital moved up eight spots from last year's list to eighth. The
hospital was ranked 49th in the country in pulmonology and had high-performing
marks in urology, congestive heart failure, colon cancer surgery, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease and hip and knee replacements.

The annual list from U.S. News & World Report comes on the heels of hospital
data released last week by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The
Medicare report ranked hospitals for quality from one to five stars.

While ranked among the best in the country, UPMC Presbyterian-Shadyside received
just two stars out of five from the Medicare ratings.

Some hospital lobbyists and officials have criticized the Medicare ratings,
arguing they need to be adjusted more for issues like poverty and treating
patients with complex health issues.

Officials with the federal government have said they created the rating system
to provide more information about the care available at area hospitals.

"We have received numerous letters from national patient and consumer advocacy
groups supporting the release of these ratings because it improves the
transparency and accessibility of hospital quality information," Dr. Kate
Goodrich, director of the Center for Clinical Standards and Quality, said in a
blog post last week.

Contact Matthew Nojiri: 610-371-5062 or mnojiri@readingeagle.com

Matthew Nojiri -- Reporter

Reporter Matthew Nojiri covers the medical beat and the areas within the
Schuylkill Valley and Conrad Weiser school districts for the Reading Eagle.

Phone: 610-371-5062

Email: mnojiri@readingeagle.com

TODAY'S SPONSOR:

___ (c)2016 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160802-RE-2-Pennsylvania-hospitals
-ranked-among-top-20-in-U-S-0802-20160802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2016 Reading Eagle

                              358 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

LDS Hospital, U. hospitals land spots as best in U.S.

BYLINE: By Lisa Rosetta The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 367 words


Two Utah hospitals - LDS Hospital and University Hospitals and Clinics - were
among 173 in the country to earn a spot in U.S. News & World Report's "America's
Best Hospitals" guide, on newsstands today.

In its 2007 guide, the magazine ranked LDS Hospital 23rd in the nation for
urology, 44th for treatment of kidney diseases and 47th for endocrinology or
diabetes care.

"This is wonderful recognition of the dedication to excellence and
patient-centered focus that drives everything we do," said LDS Hospital CEO
Mikelle Moore.

University Hospitals and Clinics' gynecologic and cancer care, meanwhile, were
ranked 18th and 32nd in the country. The Huntsman Cancer Institute is part of
the U. hospital system.

"It is always gratifying to be recognized as one of the best, and this really
reflects the hard work and dedication of our faculty and staff," said David
Entwistle, University Hospitals and Clinics' CEO.

The magazine initially evaluated 5,462 hospitals based on three standards:
membership in the Council of Teaching Hospitals, affiliation with a medical
school and the availability of at least nine out of 18 key technologies, such as
shaped beam radiation and advanced cancer therapy.

Hospitals that met one of these three standards were then considered for
rankings in one of 16 specialties.

To be ranked among the top 50 in a specialty, such as gynecology, a hospital had
to meet one of two requirements: It must have treated a minimum number of
Medicare or Medicaid patients who had specific conditions or underwent certain
procedures during a three-year period, or it had to be named among the best by
at least one physician in the latest three annual surveys.

The rankings took into account three factors: reputation, death rate and care
factors, such as the patient-to-nurse ratio.

Of the 173 hospitals that are ranked in this year's guide, 18 earned "honor
roll" status by ranking at or near the top in at least six specialties. The top
three were Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester and
the UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles.

Pediatric hospitals will be ranked separately in the Sept. 3 issue of U.S. News
& World Report, on newsstands Aug. 27.

lrosetta@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

3 OF NATION'S TOP 20 HOSPS RIGHT HERE

BYLINE: BY HELEN KENNEDY DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 497 words


NEW YORK CITY has never been a better place to get sick.

For the first time, three New York hospitals made the U.S. News and World Report
ranking of the nation's top 20 medical centers.

New York-Presbyterian was the city's top hospital, as it reliably has been for
years, in the 2009 rankings posted to the magazine's Web site yesterday.

But for the first time, two other city institutions joined it on the magazine's
"honor roll" of outstanding hospitals: NYU Medical Center and Mount Sinai
Medical Center.

"New York is hot. Everybody wants to come here," said Dr. Herbert Pardes,
president and CEO of New York-Presbyterian.

"We get the best medical students, the best residents. People know we are
knocking the ball out of the park. The best doctors come here because they say
we are the best. It's a circular effect in the right direction."

New York-Presbyterian, the nation's largest nonprofit, nonsectarian hospital,
sees 2 million patients a year, treats the most burns and performs the most
heart transplants.

"We take care of everybody. You're the wealthy head of a company? That's fine.
You don't have a penny in your pocket? That's fine, too," Pardes said.

The hospital won special kudos for its psychiatry and neurology departments and
for its treatment of kidney disorders and diabetes.

The magazine looked at 4,861 medical centers, winnowing them down to 170
hospitals that were judged excellent in at least one of 16 specialties. The top
20 were judged tops in six or more specialties.

"Fewer than one half of 1% of hospitals received this honor. It is an
extraordinary achievement," said Dr. Kenneth Davis, president and CEO of Mount
Sinai Medical Center.

The rankings take into account factors ranging from reputation to death rates to
quality of care. For the first time this year, patient safety was included.

The magazine's annual rankings carry a lot of influence - both among patients
looking for care and doctors looking for work, translating into money and
prestige for the hospitals who make the 20-year-old list.

"This recognition highlights a tradition of excellence at NYU Langone Medical
Center and serves as yet another reminder of how learning and innovation can
come together to make our institution one of the best in the nation," said Dr.
Robert Grossman, CEO of NYU Langone Medical Center.

GRAPHIC: GETTING THE BEST CARE

Some of the top 20 U.S. hospitals as ranked by U.S. News and World Report:

1 Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore

2 The Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

3 Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles

5 Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston

6 New York-Presbyterian University Hospital Columbia and Weill Cornell, New York

8 Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia

9 Barnes-Jewish Hospital/Washington University, St. Louis

10 Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston

15 Stanford Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, Calif.

17 NYU Medical Center, New York

18 Yale-New Haven Hospital, New Haven

19 Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York

hkennedy@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;LIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Daily News, L.P.

                              360 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 11, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Hopkins ranks No. 1 in hospitals

BYLINE: Doug Levy

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 152 words


The latest report on the best hospitals in the U.S. confirms what similar
surveys found: Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore is tops in reputation and
quality.

The Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.; UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles;
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; and Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, N.C., round out the top five in the U.S. News & World Report survey
reaching newsstands today.

Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York ranked first in cancer care;
Mayo Clinic, tops in heart care.

The National Opinion Research Center of the University of Chicago compiled
rankings based on a survey of specialist doctors, federal data on hospital death
rates and factors such as ratio of nurses to beds.

Hopkins won the top ranking in the three previous U.S. News surveys and in
another recently done by the authors of The Best Doctors in America
(Woodward/White, $ 95).

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.

                              361 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)

                               November 13, 2009

Wesley voted tops by Hattiesburg-based Health Insight

BYLINE: Wally Northway

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 189  words


Health Insight has ranked Wesley Medical Center number one among hospitals in
Mississippi in Quality Measures for 2008.

Health Insight calculates national rankings for hospitals using publicly
reported data from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Hospital
Compare web site. The Hospital Compare data contains hospital-specific
performance on 25 quality measures for over 4,200 hospitals nationwide. The
quality measures show how often hospitals give recommended treatments that are
known to get the best results for patients.

The Quality Measures used to compute the rankings are drawn from four clinical
topic areas: heart attack; heart failure; pneumonia; and, surgical infection
prevention. Information about these treatments is taken from the patients'
record. Hospitals voluntarily report their data, and some hospitals may not
provide data for some topics or measures.

Not only was Wesley Medical Center ranked first in Mississippi, the hospital
also ranks in the 93rd percentile nationally, which means that in quality
measures, Wesley ranks better than all other hospitals in the nation below the
93 percent level.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Corporate earnings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Grand Forks Herald (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 28, 2012 Saturday

BRIEF: Altru, Sanford among nation's best regional hospitals

BYLINE: Grand Forks Herald, N.D.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 190 words


Jan. 28--Altru Health System in Grand Forks is among the nation's best regional
hospitals, according to the latest edition of U.S. News and World Report's best
hospitals list.

The magazine annually publishes the rankings, evaluating nearly 5,000 hospitals
in 16 medical specialties. The rankings are based on hard numbers, including
death rates and patient safety, as well as physicians' responses to a national
survey.

Altru was recognized as one of 247 hospitals outside major metropolitan areas as
this year's best regional hospitals.

Several other hospitals in the region also made the list, including Sanford USD
Medical Center in Sioux Falls, S.D., and Sanford Fargo Medical Center in Fargo.

Altru also announced Friday that it was the only health care system in North
Dakota to be named to the 2012 IMS Top 100 Integrated Healthcare Network list.
The distinction recognizes the nation's top health care networks based on their
performance level and degree of integration.

___ (c)2012 the Grand Forks Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) Visit the Grand Forks
Herald (Grand Forks, N.D.) at www.grandforksherald.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120128-GF-BRF-Altru-Sanford-among-nation-s-best-regional-hospitals
-0128-20120128

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GF


                       Copyright 2012 Grand Forks Herald

                              363 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday

Mass. is 7th in health care survey // In hospital access, rank was 33

BYLINE: Jessica Leving

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WASHINGTON - Massachusetts placed seventh in a national state-by-state ranking
of health care quality by the Commonwealth Fund Commission on a High Performance
Health System.

The rankings, made public today, were broken down according to access to health
care, prevention and treatment, avoidable hospital use and costs, equity, and
healthy lives of citizens.

Nationwide, the study found wide variations in health care quality among the
states and reported that insurance coverage and affordability are growing
concerns.

Massachusetts was first among all states in access, and made the Top 10 in all
other areas except avoidable hospital use and costs, where it came in at 33.
That number is up three from 2007, when the first Commonwealth Fund report
appeared. Massachusetts was ranked eighth overall in the 2007 report, and has
improved or stayed near the same in most areas.

"In Massachusetts, you see an intense effort to improve," said Cathy Schoen,
senior vice president of the Commonwealth Fund. "Every time we do this report,
there's a lot of scrutiny on getting the numbers right because Massachusetts
would like to be number one in all the indicators, not just one."

Robert Klugman, chief quality officer at UMass Memorial Medical Center, said
some of the hospital usage numbers in the report might be skewed by
demographics.

"Some of that data is not really reflective of reality," he said. "There's
definitely room for improvement, but that particular area is a little bit
skewed. We have some world-class academic organizations that tend to attract
some of the sickest people not only from the state but from the region. There's
an educational cost factor as well in educating the next generation of new
doctors and testing new technologies. That makes it difficult to compare apples
and oranges."

Despite the blemish in avoidable hospital use and costs, Toni McGuire, president
and chief executive officer of the Great Brook Valley Health Center in
Worcester, said there is a lot to be proud of in Massachusetts.

"The best care comes through coordination with the patient as a partner," she
said. "We have really good primary care doctors, which is maybe why our numbers
are so high." Jean C. Sullivan, director of the Center for Health Law and
Economics at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, said she was
concerned about the slight drop in rankings on equity measures.

"While still relatively high, at seventh overall, this rank is a drop from the
first-in-the- nation ranking in 2007," she said. "It appears that those who
remain uninsured in this state are having increasing difficulty getting
preventive care and seeing a doctor. Jennifer Kritz, spokeswoman for the
Massachusetts Executive Office of Health and Human Services, had not yet
reviewed the full report but said the state is taking measures to improve health
care quality.

"Massachusetts now leads the nation in insurance coverage, and we have also seen
improved access to medical and dental care," she said. "A state commission
recently issued recommendations for reforming how we pay for health care.
Instead of our current `fee-for-service' system-which rewards more care but not
necessarily the right care - the commission endorsed a `global payment' model
that prioritizes coordinated, efficient and effective patient care and will
ensure the long-term sustainability of reform."

Neighboring New England states made a good showing in the report as well, with
Vermont ranked first overall, and Maine, New Hampshire, Connecticut and Rhode
Island all in the top 25 percent. Mississippi came in last of all the states.

The goal of the study was to examine how states have done and spur action across
the country, Ms. Schoen of the Commonwealth Fund said. "Where you live
matters... and it shouldn't," she said.

The Commonwealth Fund is a private foundation that supports independent research
on health policy reform and performance.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WASHINGTON - Massachusetts placed seventh in a national state-by-state
ranking of health care quality by the Commonwealth Fund Commission on a High
Performance Health System. The rankings, made public today, were broken down
according to access to health care, prevention and treatment, avoidable hospital
use and costs, equity, and healthy lives of citizens. Nationwide, the study
found wide variations in health care quality among the states and reported that
insurance coverage and affordability are growing concerns.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 13, 2007 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UPMC 13TH-BEST IN POLL SURVEY

BYLINE: Dan Fitzpatrick, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 278 words


The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center ranks as the 13th-best hospital
system in the country, according to a new survey of 5,462 health-care
institutions from U.S. News & World Report.

It is the best performance for the Oakland nonprofit since 2005 and one spot shy
of its 12th-place showing in 1999, the first year UPMC appeared in the upper
echelon of "America's Best Hospitals." The only time it was not ranked was 2004.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore is No. 1 this year, followed by the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and the UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles. The
Cleveland Clinic is No. 4 and the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in
Philadelphia is No. 12.

The annual U.S. News & World Report rankings, initiated in 1990 to help patients
identify the institutions best at tackling the toughest conditions and
procedures, is serious business for hospitals, which often incorporate the
accolades in their marketing campaigns. UPMC, for example, has touted its past
recognition on Port Authority buses.

Last fall, after a 14th-place ranking, UPMC urged local physicians to vote for
UPMC hospitals should they be among the lucky doctors asked to participate in
the annual survey.

Sandra Danoff, UPMC chief communications officer, said yesterday the 2007
ranking reinforces "the fact that we are not just a regional [hospital] but a
national and international player." The recognition, she added, helps UPMC
compete for the leading researchers, clinicians and scientists, as well as
medical residents. "This is clearly one of the metrics they use when they make
their decision," said Ms. Danoff, also a senior associate to UPMC President
Jeffrey Romoff.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Fitzpatrick can be reached at dfitzpatrick@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1752.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              365 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Telegraph (Alton, Illinios)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday

Magazine rates Alton Memorial No. 1 in state

BYLINE: Jill Moon, The Telegraph, Alton, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 315 words


July 10--ALTON -- Hometown Alton Memorial received high marks in the August
edition of Consumer Reports magazine, including as the No. 1 Illinois hospital.

The Consumer Reports article listed not only that Alton Memorial Hospital is No.
1 in the state but also No. 3 in the country, focused on patient safety rankings
.

"Consumer Reports is a tool frequently used when buying a new automobile or
appliance; they are known for setting the gold standard of rating different
things that consumers purchase," AMH spokesman Rusty Ingram said Monday.

The rankings are the first time that Consumer Reports rated hospitals for
safety, using the most current data available at the time of the analysis.

The analysis includes information from government and independent sources on
1,159 hospitals in 44 states. The authors also interviewed patients, physicians,
hospital administrators and safety experts; reviewed medical literature; and
looked at hospital inspections and investigations.

Consumer Reports also focused on six categories in its safety ratings:
infections, re-admissions, communication, CT scanning, complications and
mortality.

"The safety score gives patients a way to compare hospitals on patient safety
before selecting where to go for their care," AMH President Dave Braasch said.
"Our top ranking is validation of the efforts put forth each day by our
physicians and staff to ensure our patients receive excellent care."

Braasch said it's an honor, of which the administration, faculty and staff are
very appreciative.

"It's a demonstration of Alton Memorial Hospital's culture and the focus we have
given to rapid improvement events, process change, a quick response to
instilling best practices and communication," Braasch said.

jmoon@thetelegraph.com

___ (c)2012 The Telegraph (Alton, Ill.) Visit The Telegraph (Alton, Ill.) at
www.thetelegraph.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120710-AI-Magazine-rates-Alton-Memorial-No-1-in-state-0710-20120710

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AI


                          Copyright 2012 The Telegraph

                              366 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 13, 2012 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Mayo Clinic Lauded as One of Nation's Best Hospitals in U.S. News & World Report
Rankings

LENGTH: 538  words


New Delhi, Sept. 13 -- Mayo Clinic ranked near the top of the 23rd U.S. News &
World Report annual America's Best Hospital list, earning the No. 3 overall spot
on its "Best Hospitals" list. Mayo Clinic in Rochester also was rated best in
the nation in three clinical areas - gynecology, diabetes and endocrinology, and
gastroenterology.



Hospitals included in the U.S. News Honor Roll, such as Mayo Clinic, are part of
an elite group recognized for "breadth of excellence," according to the
magazine. To make the magazine's "Honor Roll," a medical center must rank at or
near the top in at least six of 16 specialties. Mayo Clinic made the top 10 in
15 of the 16 specialties. The rankings were announced today on U.S. News & World
Report's website. Print editions will be on newsstands starting Aug. 30.

Mayo Clinic in Rochester ranked No. 1 or No. 2 in eight of the 12 specialties
measured based on reputation, services and volumes, safety and clinical
outcomes. The eight specialties are:

* Gynecology (1)

* Diabetes and endocrinology (1)

* Gastroenterology (1)

* Nephrology (2)

* Neurology (2)

* Cardiology (2)

* Pulmonology (2)

* Orthopedics (2)

Mayo Clinic also took honors in urology (3), cancer (4), rheumatology (4),
otolaryngology (6), rehabilitation (6), geriatrics (7), psychiatry (7), and
ophthalmology (14).

New this year are state and regional rankings. Mayo Clinic took the No. 1 spot
in Minnesota, ranked No. 2 in Arizona and in the Phoenix metro area, and landed
in the No. 17 overall spot in Florida and ranked No. 4 among top hospitals in
the Jacksonville area.

Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Fla., received regional recognition as high
performing in specialties including cancer, gastroenterology, geriatrics,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, and urology.

Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale and Phoenix, Ariz., received national recognition in
geriatrics (24) and nephrology (34). In addition, Mayo Clinic in Arizona was
recognized as regionally high performing in cancer, diabetes and endocrinology,
otolaryngology, gastroenterology, gynecology, neurology and neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology, rheumatology, and urology.

"More than any other health care organizations, Mayo Clinic's model of care is
defined by teamwork, with a group of experts focusing their expertise on one
patient at a time. U.S. News is an important ranking that patients and Mayo
Clinic take seriously," says John Noseworthy, M.D., Mayo Clinic's president and
CEO. "We are honored by this recognition, and we remain focused on our primary
mission: putting the needs of our patients first and creating for them the best
possible, most trusted and affordable model of health care for the future."

Many private organizations and government agencies recognize hospitals for high
levels of quality and safety. Each uses its own assessment of what best
determines hospital quality, and as a result, rankings often differ.

"Mayo Clinic is ranked highly by more of the well-known national ranking systems
than any other major U.S. hospital or clinic, and we are proud to have been
recognized by so many," Dr. Noseworthy says. "The endorsement reinforces our
century-old commitment to providing the highest quality care to each patient
every day."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

US News & World Report Puts Houston Methodist Hospital on Its Honor Roll

LENGTH: 404  words


Aug. 2 -- U.S. News & World Report has recognized Houston Methodist Hospital as
one of the nation's top 20 hospitals, placing it for the second time on the
magazine's prestigious Honor Roll.

Houston Methodist Hospital is also named the No. 1 hospital in Texas for the
fifth consecutive year, and is the only hospital in Texas to earn a spot on the
"Best Hospitals" Honor Roll. The Honor Roll, which includes 20 hospitals
throughout the country, recognizes hospitals that are the "best of the best" in
patient care, patient safety, outcomes, nursing, advanced technology and
reputation.

This year, Houston Methodist Hospital ranks No. 19 on the Honor Roll, a
recognition last achieved by the hospital in 2009. The hospital is ranked in 10
out of 16 specialties, the most of any hospital in the state.

Two of our community hospitals also appear in the regional and state rankings.
Houston Methodist Willowbrook Hospital ranks No. 8 in Houston and No. 19 in the
state. Houston Methodist Sugar Land Hospital ranks No. 9 in Houston and No. 23
in the state.

U.S. News recognizes Houston Methodist Hospital for superior performance in nine
common adult procedures and conditions including abdominal aortic aneurysm
repair; aortic valve surgery; heart bypass surgery; heart failure; colon cancer
surgery; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); hip replacement; knee
replacement; and lung cancer surgery.

"Making the Honor Roll is a tremendous achievement for our physicians, nurses
and employees who give the best of themselves every day to our patients," said
Marc Boom, M.D., president and CEO of Houston Methodist. "This is validation
that we are leading medicine, providing our community the highest quality
medical care, research and education for almost 100 years."

Houston Methodist Hospital is ranked in cancer; cardiology/heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology/GI surgery; geriatrics; nephrology;
neurology/neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology. Five of these
specialties are ranked in the top 20.

The hospitals ranked nationally are scored by reputation, mortality and a group
of care-related factors such as nursing and technology. Each specialty lists the
50 highest-scoring hospitals. In all, 4,667 hospitals are eligible for the
rankings, and only 153 were ranked in at least one specialty.

The rankings are online at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

Source: Methodist Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           October 10, 2009 Saturday

BMC gets high mark

BYLINE: By Tony Dobrowolski, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Health; Headlines

LENGTH: 556 words


Sunday, Oct. 11PITTSFIELD -- Berkshire Medical Center has been ranked first in
both the state and New England in a nationwide study conducted by a Tennessee
firm that measures health-care value.

Nationally, BMC was ranked 86th out of the 4,500 hospitals that were considered
for the 2009-2010 Hospital Value Index by Data Advantage LLC of Nashville, a
privately held health-care information company that has specialized in providing
the healthcare and business communities with independent and objective
information about the country's hospital industry since 1992.

Only acute-care general service hospitals that participate in the Medicare
reimbursement program were considered for the Hospital Value Index, said Data
Advantage's senior adviser John Morrow. Specialty hospitals, veterans hospitals,
and private health organizations that don't participate in federal programs were
excluded, he said.

The rankings are based on each hospital's quality, affordability, efficiency and
patient satisfaction performance under the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) regulations. BMC received high marks
in all four of those areas. The index is designed to use only objective,
verifiable, and quantitative data that are consistent and complete across the
country to ensure objective measurement rather than anecdotal evidence,
according to Data Advantage.

Berkshire Health Systems Chief Operating Officer Diane Kelly said BMC's ranking
is the culmination of a "10-year journey" that began when BMC's board of
directors and president and CEO David Phelps made a commitment to quality that
began when Gray Ellrodt was hired as chair of medicine a decade ago.

"What's different and exciting about this award is that it has a strong
component in quality of care, which is really the mission and purpose of
everything that we do here at BMC," Kelly said. "I'm happy to see that we have
valuation from external organizations such as the index not just in top
performance in quality, but having done so in a cost-effective manner, which is
critical for any health-care system."

"These national achievements for Berkshire Medical Center are a testament to the
dedication of our medical staff, employees, trustees, and leadership team, and
reinforce our commitment to providing the highest level of quality care for our
patients," Phelps said in a written statement.

This is the third time that Data Advantage has compiled the Hospital Value
Index, but only the second time it has released the rankings publicly, Morrow
said. The company's previous rankings were focused on hospitals that are located
in the country's 100 largest metropolitan statistical areas.

"I don't know off the top of my head if we ranked BMC previously," Morrow said.
"In the previous rendition, we didn't rank and report on the findings, but in
this rendition we did because we had expanded the analysis to include many, many
more markets."

Before the advent of the Hospital Index, no public measurement existed to
integrate efficiency, affordability and quality, Ellrodt said.

"In my mind what's exciting about this award and the Data Advantage approach is
to be able to look at quality and at what cost," Ellrodt said. "This is a big
discussion in Congress right now, value."

To reach Tony Dobrowolski:
 TDobrowolski@berkshireeagle.com
or (413) 496-6224

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            St. Marys Journal Argus

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday
                                  ONT Edition

Hospital tops rankings for patient satisfaction

SECTION: Pg. 0

LENGTH: 495  words


Stew SlaterSt. Marys Journal Argus

Across Ontario, there is one hospital to which patients under acute care or
emerging from acute care are most likely to recommend to others, compared to
other hospitals. And that hospital is St. Marys Memorial.

The Queen Street West facility received outstanding reviews in an annual survey
of patients across Ontario, the results of which were released to the media
earlier this week. The survey covers patient experience between April, 2011 and
March, 2012, and is part of an annual report by the National Research
Corporation of Canada (NRCC).

"These results reflect our healthcare team's unwavering commitment to providing
the very best care possible," said Dick Burgess, in a news release sent out by
the Huron Perth Healthcare Alliance (HPHA) that operates St. Marys Memorial
along with facilities in Stratford, Clinton and Seaforth. Burgess, from
Seaforth, is chair of the HPHA board of directors.

Reached for comment on Monday afternoon, HPHA CEO Andrew Williams said he wasn't
surprised by the results.

"Whenever we see positive patient satisfaction results in St. Marys or at our
three other sites, it simply re-affirms to me that the direction we've been
taking, with an emphasis on patient engagement and patient family engagement, is
the right direction," Williams told the Journal Argus.

"We know from research that's been done that, when you start to look at quality
of care, how responsive you are to the patients is a big driver," he said,
adding the HPHA board has set a strategy of patient-centred care. "And we also
are aware that the level of engagement with the public that our St. Marys site
has is strong."

Williams noted that the categories in which St. Marys Memorial received top
marks included "all hospital peer groups" â\x80" meaning it runs the gamut from
small, rural facilities like those in St. Marys, Seaforth and Clinton, to
"community hospitals" like Stratford General, to big-city teaching hospitals and
region-wide providers.

Results from the NRCC survey reveal St. Marys Memorial stood alone atop the
2011-12 rankings for "likelihood to recommend in acute inpatient care," and also
emerged in a two-way tie atop the rankings in "overall care in acute inpatient
care."

Seaforth Community Hospital also achieved a top-level ranking, emerging as the
"top performing hospital in Ontario for overall care in the Emergency Department
(in) all hospital peer groups." St. Marys Memorial and Clinton Public Hospital
were both in the top 10 per cent for both "overall care" and "likelihood to
recommend" in the Emergency Department category.

"The HPHA Board congratulates and thanks the entire HPHA team for this
commitment. We look forward to continuing to work hard to meet and exceed the
needs of those we are here to serve," Burgess said in the news release.

Williams added that "it's something we should celebrate and learn from and move
forward . . . We can always get better . . . You can never be complacent."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      September 9, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

MedCenterDisplay: Patients Prefer Digital Communications to Print

LENGTH: 455  words


New Delhi, Sept. 9 -- Three out of four patients and caregivers who viewed
hospital messaging on digital screens in eight hospitals in the U.S. found the
content enhanced the hospital experience and provided health information they
could use, according to a study by media and marketing research firm Arbitron,
Inc.



MedCenterDisplay, a leading provider of digital patient engagement networks for
hundreds of hospitals in the U.S., commissioned Arbitron to conduct on-site
interviews of adults who had viewed hospital and health-related information
running on flat screen monitors placed in hospital waiting areas and cafeterias.


The study, which evaluated the effectiveness of patient engagement and hospital
-branded messaging, revealed that nearly 75 percent of visitors who viewed the
MedCenterDisplay screens could recall at least one message running on the
network.

Survey respondents said the video screens were informative and educational,
better than print as a means of distributing information, and that they learned
something new from the screens, ranking this information from 4.0 to 4.5 on a 1
to 5 scale, with 5 being the highest ranking.

"We believe these findings clearly reinforce the value in establishing a robust
patient engagement network that brings patients and hospitals together to
improve healthcare," said Gregg Tarquinio, Ph.D., chief executive officer of
MedCenterDisplay. "Already hospitals that communicate key healthcare delivery
messages on digital screens are seeing lower readmissions and higher 'HCAHPS'
patient satisfaction scores."

On average, visitors were exposed to patient education and hospital content an
average of one hour and eight minutes while in the hospital.

Those surveyed found information on hospital news, general health news, and tips
on maintaining good health most interesting, ranking the information from 4.0 to
4.6 on a scale from 1 to 5. These rankings mirror recent reports that healthcare
has become one of the highest search topics online.

The report also found that only one-third of all visitors to the hospital were
actually patients. Two-thirds were family members and caregivers of patients,
which correlates with national estimates on the rising number of adult
caregivers reaching nearly 45 million, according to AARP.

"In any patient engagement effort, hospitals have a real opportunity to reach
out to everyone involved in a patient's long-term recovery process," said
Tarquinio.

"Our research has shown viewers of digital displays often trust the information
they see on point-of-care networks," said Diane Williams, senior media research
analyst for Arbitron. "This increased credibility clearly distinguishes these
networks from other digital and video channels."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

U.S. News: Johns Hopkins 4th in nation for hospitals

BYLINE: Daniel Leaderman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 197  words


The Johns Hopkins Hospital has once again earned high marks in U.S. News & World
Report's annual hospital rankings, but moved from third in the nation to fourth
on this year's honor roll.

The top five hospitals for 2016-2017 are the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, the
Cleveland Clinic, Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, Hopkins, and UCLA
Medical Center in Los Angeles.

Hopkins once dominated the list, nabbing the top spot in 22 out of the first 24
years the ranking were published.

The hospital earned particularly high marks for its departments of rheumatology
and neurology and neurosurgery.

Hopkins also took the top spot among Maryland hospitals; rounding out the
statewide top ten are:

2. University of Maryland Medical Center;

3. Mercy Medical Center; Sinai Hospital of Baltimore (tie);

5.  MedStar Southern Maryland Hospital Center;

6.  MedStar Union Memorial Hospital Center; University of Maryland St. Joseph
Hospital Center (tie);

8.  Anne Arundel Medical Center; MedStar Franklin Square Medical Center (tie);

10. MedStar Harbor Hospital.











http://www.mddailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                             July 11, 2000, Tuesday

CORRECTION

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1228 words


Because of incorrect information provided by U.S. News & World Report, The
Associated Press on Friday included erroneous national rankings for three
departments at two North Carolina hospitals.

According to corrected data from the magazine, Duke University Medical Center
was rated No. 4, not No. 3, for geriatrics; and No. 8, not No. 7, for kidney
disease and digestive disorders. North Carolina Baptist Hospital in
Winston-Salem was ranked No. 24, not No. 23, in geriatrics.

Morning Star

Category: Local/State

Published: 07/07/2000

Page: 3B

Keywords: Duke University; U.S. News & World Report; hospitals

THE STATE; DUKE GETS HIGHEST RANKING AT 6; 4 N.C. hospitals ranked among best in
nation

CORRECTION DATE: 07/11/2000

CORRECTION: Because of incorrect information provided by U.S. News & World
Report, The Associated Press on Friday included erroneous national rankings for
three departments at two North Carolina hospitals.  According to corrected data
from the magazine, Duke University Medical Center was rated No. 4, not No. 3,
for geriatrics; and No. 8, not No. 7, for kidney disease and digestive
disorders. North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem was ranked No. 24,
not No. 23, in geriatrics.

Byline: Compiled from staff and wire service reports

Duke University Medical Center was ranked No. 6 on U.S. News & World Report's
"honor roll" of the nation's best hospitals. Three other North Carolina
institutions were singled out for outstanding care in various specialties.

In its July 10 issue, U.S. News rated Duke, University of North Carolina
Hospitals at Chapel Hill, North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem and
Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte.

Duke ranked among the nation's top 50 hospitals in 13 specialties. It also
received recognition in three other specialties for which 22 or fewer hospitals
were rated. It was rated No. 3 for geriatrics; No. 5 for cancer and heart
disease; No. 6 for orthopedics and urology; and No. 7 for kidney disease and
digestive disorders.

Fifteen hospitals were named to U.S. News' "honor roll." Johns Hopkins Hospital
led the honor roll, followed by Mayo Clinic, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Cleveland Clinic and UCLA Medical Center. Institutions had to display unusual
competence in at least six of the 17 specialties rated to get on the list. Duke,
ranked No. 6, was deemed exceptional in 12 specialties.

University of North Carolina Hospitals in Chapel Hill received top-50 ratings in
10 specialties, with its best ranking 14th place for gynecology.

North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem was singled out for its care in
six specialties. Its highest rating was for geriatrics, for which it was ranked
23rd. Carolinas Medical Center was ranked 38th for urology, its only top 50
ranking.

The hospitals were scored according to reputation, mortality and factors such as
technology, procedure volume and nursing care.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.

                              373 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            July 24, 2008, Thursday

CAMC Memorial building to open floor by floor;
Doctors to see patients Monday in 5th-floor offices

BYLINE: Kellen Henry, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1C

LENGTH: 418 words


The new five-floor Robert C. Byrd Ambulatory Building at CAMC Memorial Hospital
will be ready for its first occupants this week.

The Charleston division of West Virginia University's Health Sciences Center
will move some operations into the building's fifth-floor offices and clinics,
and doctors will begin seeing patients Monday, said David Ramsey, CAMC's chief
executive officer.

The building, which also will house two cardiac catheterization labs, will be
fully open by January. Different departments will move in as lower floors are
ready.

"Everybody's pretty excited about it, as a modern medical education facility,"
Ramsey said after the CAMC Board of Trustees met Wednesday.

The board also authorized an application for 34 more acute care beds at
Memorial. The beds have already been placed at the hospital for use in
preparation and post-procedure observation, but need to be licensed by the
Health Care Authority. The process could take several weeks, but the cost will
be only for the application fees.

Though CAMC hospitals admitted about 5 percent fewer patients this June than a
year ago, that doesn't reflect the actual number of beds occupied, said Larry
Hudson, CAMC's chief financial officer. When patients stay longer than expected
or need observation without meeting the criteria for admissions, the hospital
can still need more beds.

"Memorial is so full that we think we will clearly be able to show the Health
Care Authority there's a need," Ramsey said. The state authority must sign off
on major projects for West Virginia hospitals.

The CAMC board is also waiting to hear the results from its Trauma Survey
evaluation last week by the American College of Surgeons.

Hospitals are evaluated every three years by the ACS and receive a ranking of
their ability to provide emergency medical services. The survey team must
discuss its evaluations with a committee, but Ramsey said the response from the
survey team indicates a Level I ranking is likely, meaning CAMC would be
equipped to manage the highest level of emergency care.

Ramsey said the hospital is already designated as a Level 1 center by the state,
but was given a Level II ranking by the ACS during the last evaluation. However,
the hospital has increased its research activity in the last three years, a
deficiency for the Level 1 criteria in the last ranking.

"It will be a significant performance standard that will measure us with
hospitals around the country," Ramsey said.

Reach Kellen Henry at khenry@wvgazette.com or 348-5179.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers

                              374 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday

Hospital is No. 1 in patient safety

SECTION: BUSINESS MATTERS; MEDICAL MEMOS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 697 words


HealthAlliance Hospital in Leominster continues to lead the state on patient
safety and quality outcomes based on data from several national surveys.

Consumer Reports, using government reports and independent information on 2,031
hospitals across the country, ranked HealthAlliance Hospital as the safest
hospital in Massachusetts for the second year in a row.

In addition to the Consumer Reports' findings, HealthAlliance Hospital's awards
and achievements include an "A" hospital safety score from The Leapfrog Group; a
Tier 1 hospital ranking by most major health insurance plans, the best ranking
for quality metrics; a ranking as the fourth leading hospital in the state for
surviving a heart attack, two years in a row; a recipient of health care's Most
Wired Award, four years in a row; one of the first hospitals in the country to
commit to electronic medical records; and the only hospital-based complementary
care center in north Central Massachusetts.

Research advances

The Alzheimer's Association will host "A Focused Conversation on New Research
Advances," featuring Dr. Brent Forester, April 10 at Quinsigamond Community
College, 670 West Boylston St., Worcester.

Registration and a reception begin at 6:15 p.m.; the presentation starts at 7.

Dr. Forester is the director of the Geriatric Mood Disorders Research Program at
McLean Hospital and an assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical
School. He is also co-chairman of the Medical and Scientific Committee for the
Alzheimer's Association, Massachusetts and New Hampshire chapter, and a member
of the association's board of directors.

Dr. Forester will speak about advances in Alzheimer's research, including new
diagnostic criteria, treatment studies and the use of PET scan technology, which
can see Alzheimer's disease in the brain.

The program is free and open to the public; reservations are requested. For more
information or to make a reservation, email Christine.brown@alz.org or call
(508) 799-2386.

Fit-Friendly

Milford Regional Medical Center has been recognized as a Platinum-Level
Fit-Friendly Worksite by the American Heart Association for helping employees
eat better and exercise more.

Platinum-level employers offer employees physical activity options in the
workplace; increase healthy eating options at the worksite; promote a wellness
culture in the workplace; implement at least nine criteria outlined by the
American Heart Association in the areas of physical activity, nutrition and
culture; and demonstrate measurable outcomes related to workplace wellness.

For more information about the Fit-Friendly Worksites program and how it is
helping to improve the health of Americans visit startwalkingnow.org.

Top ranking

Harrington HealthCare System's emergency departments in both Southbridge and
Webster rank among the top 49 healthcare systems in the country, or the top 2
percent, for short waiting times, according to statistics compiled by Becker's
Hospital Review.

The average wait in the emergency departments at Harrington Hospital and
Harrington HealthCare at Hubbard in Webster was 6 minutes for the first quarter
of 2012.

Becker's compiled the data from information that Harrington provides each
quarter to the national Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The time
represents the average time patients spent in the emergency departments before
they were seen by a health care provider. CMMS examines the emergency department
waiting times in more than 3,500 hospitals nationwide.

Harrington publishes the waiting times in both emergency departments on its
website, harringtonhospital.org.

Tuberculosis care

State Rep. Ryan Fattman, R-Sutton, and state Sen. Richard T. Moore, D-Uxbridge,
recently joined state Rep. Peter Durant, R-Spencer, to honor Harrington Memorial
Hospital as the recipient of the Institutional Partner Award for Excellence in
Tuberculosis Care.

Mr. Durant presented the award to members of Harrington's TB Clinic at a
Statehouse ceremony in recognition of World No TB Day 2013. Accepting the award
was Arleen Smith, Harrington's director of preventive health; Nancy Johndrow,
administrative assistant for the TB Clinic; and Debra Vescera, the TB Clinic's
primary nurse.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             June 23, 2016 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Magazine recognizes PSU Children's Hospital

BYLINE: By, Staff report

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 176 words


For the sixth consecutive year, Penn State Children's Hospital has been ranked
among the Best Children's Hospitals in multiple specialties by U.S. News & World
Report.

Penn State Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, neonatology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics and urology in the 2016-2017 rankings. This marks the
first time the Children's Hospital has been ranked in neonatology, singling out
the care provided by the region's highest level neonatal intensive care unit.

"The recognition of our neonatology program is a testament to the high quality
care we provide to our hospital's most fragile newborn patients," said Dr.
Barbara Ostrov, interim chair of pediatrics at Penn State Children's Hospital,
in a news release.

The U.S. News rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of 10
pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

Penn State Children's Hospital is located in Derry Township.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                              WED REGIONAL Edition

A healthy showing for Colo. hospital

BYLINE: John Wenzel

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 594 words


For the first time in its 27 year history of health care rankings, U.S. News &
World Report has listed a Colorado hospital on its Best Hospitals Honor Roll, a
list of the top hospitals in the country.

The University of Colorado Hospital the academic home for UCHealth, a nonprofit
health care system that includes five hospitals and more than 100 clinics
throughout Colorado muscled its way onto the 20th and final spot on the list,
distinguishing itself among 5,000 hospitals considered nationally.

It's a prestigious nod and a sign of the Aurora based hospital's continued
growth, said Will Cook, CEO and president.

"What it really means is that for people who live in the Rocky Mountain Region,
when they're diagnosed with a serious disease, they don't need to leave the
region for quality care," said Cook, a 20 year industry veteran who joined
UCHealth in September. "They don't need to go to the east or west coast because
they can get the very best care here locally."

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, N.Y., was named best hospital in the United
States.

In addition to UCHealth ranking as best overall in Colorado, U.S. News
recognized it as second in the nation for pulmonology (respiratory care), a
distinction it shares with partner organization National Jewish Health. The
report also lauded UCHealth for its work in diabetes and endocrinology (14th in
the nation), kidney disorders (15th), cancer (22nd), gastroenterology and GI
surgery (22nd), gynecology (32nd), geriatrics (36th), cardiology and heart
surgery (42nd), orthopedics (42nd) and neurology and neurosurgery (43rd).

Last year, the hospital handled nearly 101,000 emergency department visits and
cared for more than 46,000 inpatients. The hospital also performed almost 300
organ transplants and delivered more than 3,600 babies. More than 1,800
physicians and providers work at the hospital (out of a total of more than 6,000
employees), and its annual economic impact exceeds $4.5 billion, according to a
2014 report from the University of Colorado.

The hospital was founded in 1885 as a 30 bed institution located on CU's Boulder
campus.

"We wouldn't have a ranking like this without our partnership with CU School of
Medicine, since we're the only academic medical center in the region," Cook
said. "But we also wouldn't have it without our dedicated doctors, nurses and
staff. And this helps attract talent, because so many people are moving to this
region, and when you're looking to expand to meet that need it helps when you're
recruiting."

Hospitals received points in the rankings if they were nationally ranked in one
of the 16 specialties the higher they ranked, the more points they got and how
many ratings of "high performing" they earned in the nine procedures and
conditions. The top 20 point getters made up the Honor Roll.

The only other hospital to earn a specialty nod was Craig Hospital of Englewood,
which came in seventh nationally for rehabilitation care.

Other Colorado hospitals joining UCHealth on the list of best hospitals in the
state are: Porter Adventist Hospital of Denver (second), Medical Center of the
Rockies of Loveland (third), Penrose St. Francis Health Services of Colorado
Springs (fourth) and Poudre Valley Hospital of Fort Collins (fifth). Memorial
Hospital of Colorado Springs, St. Mary's Hospital and Medical Center of Grand
Junction and Sky Ridge Medical Center of Lone Tree all tied for sixth place.

To see the the full list, including specialties and children's hospitals, go to
health.usnews.com

John Wenzel: 303 954 1642, jwenzel@ denverpost.com or @johnwenzel

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

GRU-affiliated hospitals rank high in state

LENGTH: 428  words

DATELINE: Augusta


Georgia Regents University has issued the following news release:

Georgia Trend magazine ranked Georgia Regents Medical Center - the flagship
hospital for the Medical College of Georgia at Georgia Regents University - and
Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital in Albany -- at No. 3 and No. 7, respectively --
among the Top Teaching Hospitals in the state in their 2014 Top Hospitals
feature. Phoebe Putney is the hub of MCG's fi11-14-cover-743e6678rst satellite
medical campus - the Southwest Georgia Clinical Campus - for third- and
fourth-year medical students. The Children's Hospital of Georgia also has a
pediatrics presence at Phoebe. In addition, Floyd Medical Center, part of GRU's
Northwest Clinical Campus for MCG students, was ranked second best teaching
hospital in the state.

There are more than 130 hospitals dotting the Georgia landscape. To determine
the rankings, officials at Georgia Trend grouped hospitals of similar size and
mission together and compared them with their peer institutions. The top
hospitals are listed in five categories: Teaching Hospitals, Large Hospitals
(more than 400 beds), Medium-sized Hospitals (151-399 beds), Small Hospitals
(fewer than 150 beds), and Critical Access Hospitals (rural community hospitals,
typically with fewer than 25 beds).

The data used to compile the rankings came from publicly available information
on quality of care, patient satisfaction, mortality and readmission statistics,
and hospital-acquired infections and conditions. The information comes from the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and is available at
hospitalcompare.hhs.gov. The data download date for our analysis is July 2014.

TOP TEACHING HOSPITALS
Hospitals affiliated with accredited medical schools that provide education and
training opportunities for students:

Emory University Hospital - Atlanta
    Floyd Medical Center - Rome
    Georgia Regents Medical Center - Augusta
    Navicent Health** - Macon
    Emory University Hospital Midtown - Atlanta
    Midtown Medical Center - Columbus
    Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital - Albany
    Atlanta Medical Center - Atlanta
    Houston Medical Center - Warner Robins
    Memorial Health University Medical Center - Savannah
    Mayo Clinic Health System in Waycross - Waycross
    Grady Memorial Hospital - Atlanta

**Formerly Medical Center of Central Georgia

To see other hospital categories and rankings, read the full article in the
December issue of Georgia Trend magazine.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              March 5, 2007 Monday

Web site grades hospitals on quality of care, satisfaction

BYLINE: By Kevin Smith Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 440 words


Finding a good plumber or mechanic can be relatively easy. You ask around,
evaluate word-of-mouth references and get some estimates.

But how do you go about selecting the best hospital for your maternity stay or
heart bypass surgery?

Beginning today, CalHospitalCompare.org is hoping to make the choice a little
easier.

The Web site - the result of a partnership between the California HealthCare
Foundation, UC San Francisco Institute for Health Policy Studies, and California
Hospitals Assessment and Reporting Taskforce - offers comprehensive information
on more than 200 hospitals, representing 70 percent of all hospital admissions
in the state.

Hospitals are rated on 50 performance indicators, including patient satisfaction
and specific conditions ranging from maternity services to heart disease
treatment.

"We worked with consumer focus groups to make sure we designed the Web display
in a way that would work for patients and families," said Maribeth Shannon, who
directs the Market and Policy Monitor program for the California HealthCare
Foundation. "The benefit of this Web site is that it encourages improvement in
hospitals."

Huntington Hospital in Pasadena earned an average quality-of-care rating for
treatment of heart attack and superior rankings in the areas of patient
satisfaction and timeliness of care.

Seventy-eight percent of heart attack patients indicated they would recommend
the hospital.

In the maternity patient satisfaction category, 91 percent of patients said they
would recommend Huntington Memorial.

Kaiser Permanente Baldwin Park Medical Center garnered an above-average rating
in the quality-of-care category for heart attack and a superior medical patient
satisfaction ranking.

Alhambra Hospital Medical Center didn't fare as well, with a poor
quality-of-care rating under heart attack treatment.

However, the Alhambra center received a superior quality-of-care ranking for
treatment of pneumonia.

R. Adams Dudley, associate professor of medicine and health policy at UC San
Francisco and project director for the Institute for Health Policy Studies, said
the Web site ratings are adjusted for differences in the patient mix.

"When you do patient surveys, for example, maternity patients are always happier
than other types of patients," he said. "We corrected for that."

Surgical patients likewise tend to be happier than medical patients because
"when they leave the hospital they go home with their problem fixed," Dudley
said.

Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier nabbed a superior rating for
heart attack care and a superior patient satisfaction ranking.

kevin.smith@sgvn.com

(626) 962-8811, Ext. 2701

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 28, 2011 Monday 6:30 AM EST

DR Systems: KLAS Ranks DR Systems the Top PACS Vendor for Large Hospitals

LENGTH: 459  words


New Delhi, Nov. 28 -- DR Systems, one of the most respected names in healthcare
information systems, has once again been recognized by KLAS as the leading PACS
vendor for large hospitals. This is the second year in a row that the company
has received the top ranking.

The ranking is published in the KLAS Specialty Report: PACS 2011. The company
was rated ahead of all other PACS companies including McKesson, Fuji, GE Medical
Systems, Siemens, Philips, and Merge.

The DR Systems Unity RIS/PACS received the top ranking in the category of large
hospitals - defined as hospitals with 200 or more beds. Research for the report
encompassed interviews with 423 healthcare provider organizations.

KLAS cited DR Systems for its continued "strong run of high performance in the
large-hospital PACS market" and noted that "clients evangelize DR Systems more
than they evangelize any other PACS vendor."

The company also received the highest percentage of positive commentary among
all PACS vendors, including 100% positive commentary in functionality/upgrades.

"Most [DR Systems] customers reported feeling they have a true partnership and a
voice in the ongoing development and progress of the Unity PACS platform," KLAS
reported.

DR Systems has also been recognized by KLAS as the #1 overall PACS vendor in
four of the last ten years (2001, 2006, 2007 and 2010). The 2011 winner will be
announced later this year.

In addition to its overall first-place ranking in the large-hospital category,
DR Systems achieved top scores in numerous topical areas. They included:

Service and support

* Quality of implementation

* Quality of training

* Quality of phone/web support

Technology/Product Quality

* Best solution compared to others

* Money's worth

* Supports integration goals

* Overall satisfaction

* Recommend to a peer/friend

Relationship with Customers

* Executive involvement

* Overall communication

"We've always made it our first priority to help our customers maximize their
clinical and financial success," said Murray Reicher, M.D., the company's
chairman and co-founder. "Receiving this recognition for the second time in a
row is tremendously rewarding because it speaks to the bond we have forged with
our customers.

"As we move ahead in this era of enterprise imaging systems, DR is very well
prepared because of our wide array of RIS, CVIS, PACS, Reporting, Meaningful
Use, and Information/Image sharing products and services. We thank our customers
for this tremendous honor from KLAS."

KLAS is a prominent research and consulting firm that specializes in monitoring
and reporting the performance of healthcare information technology vendors,
including picture archiving and communication systems (PACS) companies. For more
information about KLAS, visit www.KLASresearch.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday

Hospital is No. 1 in patient safety

SECTION: BUSINESS MATTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 701 words


COLUMN: MEDICAL MEMOS

HealthAlliance Hospital in Leominster continues to lead the state on patient
safety and quality outcomes based on data from several national surveys.

Consumer Reports, using government reports and independent information on 2,031
hospitals across the country, ranked HealthAlliance Hospital as the safest
hospital in Massachusetts for the second year in a row.

In addition to the Consumer Reports' findings, HealthAlliance Hospital's awards
and achievements include an "A" hospital safety score from The Leapfrog Group; a
Tier 1 hospital ranking by most major health insurance plans, the best ranking
for quality metrics; a ranking as the fourth leading hospital in the state for
surviving a heart attack, two years in a row; a recipient of health care's Most
Wired Award, four years in a row; one of the first hospitals in the country to
commit to electronic medical records; and the only hospital-based complementary
care center in north Central Massachusetts.

Research advances

The Alzheimer's Association will host "A Focused Conversation on New Research
Advances," featuring Dr. Brent Forester, April 10 at Quinsigamond Community
College, 670 West Boylston St., Worcester.

Registration and a reception begin at 6:15 p.m.; the presentation starts at 7.

Dr. Forester is the director of the Geriatric Mood Disorders Research Program at
McLean Hospital and an assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical
School. He is also co-chairman of the Medical and Scientific Committee for the
Alzheimer's Association, Massachusetts and New Hampshire chapter, and a member
of the association's board of directors.

Dr. Forester will speak about advances in Alzheimer's research, including new
diagnostic criteria, treatment studies and the use of PET scan technology, which
can see Alzheimer's disease in the brain.

The program is free and open to the public; reservations are requested. For more
information or to make a reservation, email Christine.brown@alz.org or call
(508) 799-2386.

Fit-Friendly

Milford Regional Medical Center has been recognized as a Platinum-Level
Fit-Friendly Worksite by the American Heart Association for helping employees
eat better and exercise more.

Platinum-level employers offer employees physical activity options in the
workplace; increase healthy eating options at the worksite; promote a wellness
culture in the workplace; implement at least nine criteria outlined by the
American Heart Association in the areas of physical activity, nutrition and
culture; and demonstrate measurable outcomes related to workplace wellness.

For more information about the Fit-Friendly Worksites program and how it is
helping to improve the health of Americans visit startwalkingnow.org.

Top ranking

Harrington HealthCare System's emergency departments in both Southbridge and
Webster rank among the top 49 healthcare systems in the country, or the top 2
percent, for short waiting times, according to statistics compiled by Becker's
Hospital Review.

The average wait in the emergency departments at Harrington Hospital and
Harrington HealthCare at Hubbard in Webster was 6 minutes for the first quarter
of 2012.

Becker's compiled the data from information that Harrington provides each
quarter to the national Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The time
represents the average time patients spent in the emergency departments before
they were seen by a health care provider. CMMS examines the emergency department
waiting times in more than 3,500 hospitals nationwide.

Harrington publishes the waiting times in both emergency departments on its
website, harringtonhospital.org.

Tuberculosis care

State Rep. Ryan Fattman, R-Sutton, and state Sen. Richard T. Moore, D-Uxbridge,
recently joined state Rep. Peter Durant, R-Spencer, to honor Harrington Memorial
Hospital as the recipient of the Institutional Partner Award for Excellence in
Tuberculosis Care.

Mr. Durant presented the award to members of Harrington's TB Clinic at a
Statehouse ceremony in recognition of World No TB Day 2013. Accepting the award
was Arleen Smith, Harrington's director of preventive health; Nancy Johndrow,
administrative assistant for the TB Clinic; and Debra Vescera, the TB Clinic's
primary nurse.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HealthAlliance Hospital in Leominster continues to lead the state on
patient safety and quality outcomes based on data from several national surveys.
Consumer Reports, using government reports and independent information on 2,031
hospitals across the country, ranked HealthAlliance Hospital as the safest
hospital in Massachusetts for the second year in a row.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Philadelphia hospital ranked 1st in state, 9th-best in country

BYLINE: Matthew Nojiri, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


July 21--For the second straight year, the Hospitals of the University of
Pennsylvania-Penn Presbyterian was the top hospital in the state and one of the
best in the country, according to rankings released today by U.S. News & World
Report.

The Philadelphia-based hospital system came in as the ninth-best in the country
and earned a national ranking in 13 of 16 complex specialties. The University of
Pittsburgh Medical Center was second in the state and 13th in the country.

"Patients deserve high-quality information on hospitals," Ben Harder, chief of
health analysis at U.S. News, said in a statement. "We strive to provide them
with the most comprehensive data available so they can make more informed
decisions together with their doctor about where to undergo treatment."

The report covers complex care in 16 medical and surgical specialties. Just 3
percent of hospitals in the nation earned a national ranking in at least one
speciality.

It also looks at five areas of common care, such as hip and knee replacement,
heart bypass surgery, heart failure and chronic lung disease.

In the region, Lehigh Valley Hospital near Allentown ranked third in the state;
Lancaster General Hospital, fifth; Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center,
seventh; and Harrisburg-based PinnacleHealth Hospitals, eighth.

Reading Hospital received high-performing status for knee replacement and heart
failure and was in an 11-way tie for 16th in the state. Penn State Health St.
Joseph Medical Center was not ranked in the report.

The list is designed to be a starting point for patients with life-threatening
or rare conditions as they look to identify hospitals that excel in treating
difficult cases.

U.S. News notes in its overview of the report that patients do not always need
to go to hospitals at the top of the list, particularly for more common
procedures and care that is offered at their community hospitals and is more
likely covered in their insurance plans.

The best hospitals in the country earned spots on the honor roll for being
nationally ranked or near the top in six or more specialties.

The top hospital in the United States was Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston, moving up a spot from last year. The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.,
was second and Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and UCLA Medical Center in
Los Angeles tied for third.

Contact Matthew Nojiri: 610-371-5062 or mnojiri@readingeagle.com

TODAY'S SPONSOR:

___ (c)2015 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150721-RE-Philadelphia-hospital
-ranked-1st-in-state-9th-best-in-country-0721-20150721

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2015 Reading Eagle

                              382 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Timaru Herald (New Zealand)

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

DHB hails hospital ranking system

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 407 words


Timaru patients will get a chance to rank their hospital stays from next year
under a system similar to Trip Advisor, a travel review website.

South Canterbury District Health Board (SCDHB) chief executive Nigel Trainor has
welcomed the proposed national ranking system, to be rolled out across all
public hospitals.

The concept will allow patients to rank their hospital stays on a one-to-10
scale.

"Feedback and information regarding care is vital to ensuring our service is
meeting people's needs, the quality of our service rates well and highlights
areas where we can improve," Mr Trainor said.

Timaru Hospital patients can already provide feedback on their time in hospital
using a range of resources, including "complaint and i-forms", which are
available on the SCDHB website.

The "i-form" is an informal feedback process available to anyone who visits a
SCDHB service. The forms can be filled out and placed in a locked box at the
hospital or posted to the Quality and Risk Department. The box is cleared
monthly and the information is collated into a document, which is shared around
the organisation, Mr Trainor said.

"Responses are provided to the individual if requested when a name and contact
details are provided."

The SCDHB also sends out a patient satisfaction survey to 170 "randomly
selected" inpatients and outpatients each fortnight. The responses are sent to
an independent company for collation and the anonymous data is provided to the
DHB each quarter.

The health board is also piloting a new "consumer experience questionnaire".

Focus groups are being held in Timaru this week to go over the concept.
Developers will also work with those groups to review the proposed
questionnaire.

On average the SCDHB receives eight written complaints a month.

Mr Trainor said "a number" of compliments were also received, but a record of
those was not kept.

He said a range of DHBs will pilot the proposed ranking system before the
national roll out. It is not yet known if the SCDHB will be one of those.

The ranking system will focus on four key areas - communication, partnership,
co-ordination and physical and emotional needs.

Health Minister Tony Ryall said the survey would provide "invaluable"
information to DHBs about what they are doing well and the areas they could
improve on.

"It will be the first time this information has been collected and measured in
the same way across the whole country."

The results will be publicly reported.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                              July 7, 2000, Friday
                              Correction Appended

THE STATE; DUKE GETS HIGHEST RANKING AT 6; 4 N.C. hospitals ranked among best in
nation

BYLINE: Compiled from staff and wire service reports

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 277 words


Duke University Medical Center was ranked No. 6 on U.S. News & World Report's
"honor roll" of the nation's best hospitals. Three other North Carolina
institutions were singled out for outstanding care in various specialties.

In its July 10 issue, U.S. News rated Duke, University of North Carolina
Hospitals at Chapel Hill, North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem and
Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte.

Duke ranked among the nation's top 50 hospitals in 13 specialties. It also
received recognition in three other specialties for which 22 or fewer hospitals
were rated. It was rated No. 3 for geriatrics; No. 5 for cancer and heart
disease; No. 6 for orthopedics and urology; and No. 7 for kidney disease and
digestive disorders.

Fifteen hospitals were named to U.S. News' "honor roll." Johns Hopkins Hospital
led the honor roll, followed by Mayo Clinic, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Cleveland Clinic and UCLA Medical Center. Institutions had to display unusual
competence in at least six of the 17 specialties rated to get on the list. Duke,
ranked No. 6, was deemed exceptional in 12 specialties.

University of North Carolina Hospitals in Chapel Hill received top-50 ratings in
10 specialties, with its best ranking 14th place for gynecology.

North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem was singled out for its care in
six specialties. Its highest rating was for geriatrics, for which it was ranked
23rd. Carolinas Medical Center was ranked 38th for urology, its only top 50
ranking.

The hospitals were scored according to reputation, mortality and factors such as
technology, procedure volume and nursing care.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2000, Tuesday

CORRECTION: Because of incorrect information provided by U.S. News & World
Report, The Associated Press on Friday included erroneous national rankings for
three departments at two North Carolina hospitals.

According to corrected data from the magazine, Duke University Medical Center
was rated No. 4, not No. 3, for geriatrics; and No. 8, not No. 7, for kidney
disease and digestive disorders. North Carolina Baptist Hospital in
Winston-Salem was ranked No. 24, not No. 23, in geriatrics.

                   Copyright 2000 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.

                              384 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

N.Y.-PRESBY TOP CITY HOSP: REPORT

BYLINE: By Mike Jaccarino

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 148 words


NEW YORK-Presbyterian University Hospital of Columbia and Cornell is once again
tops among New York City area hospitals, according to U.S. News & World Report.

It is the 11th year in a row that the hospital took top honors in the metro area
in the magazine's popular Best Hospitals rankings.

"We're really happy, and this is an indication of our commitment to quality and
excellence," said Dr. Steven Corwin, executive vice president and chief
operating officer for the hospital. "It's not about the rankings. It's about
saving and taking care of people."

Just 17 hospitals made the national Honor Roll, the magazine said. Overall, U.S.
News & World Report staff ranked Johns Hopkins No. 1, followed by Massachusetts
General Hospital at No. 2 and the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota at No. 3.

Four adult facilities and one pediatric center compose the New York-Presbyterian
University Hospital umbrella.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Daily News, L.P.

                              385 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                             April 19, 2013 Friday

Good hospitals, or bad statistics?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 700 words


The CBC's Fifth Estate recently broadcast Rate My Hospital, a "sweeping
cross-country investigation into Canada's hospitals.

"Manufacturing scaremongering headlines on junk-science hospital ratings"
however, would have been a better description. The last time there was an
'investigation' like this, they found Galileo guilty.

Interviews of health system administrators trying to explain their poor ratings
only added to the sleaziness. It's like asking a confidence game victim to
explain how they were conned before they realize they have been.

Yorkton Regional Health Centre spokesperson Sharon Tropin did an admirable job
explaining a D rating, criticizing the rating tool for having only five
indicators. That's a good point.

Here's a better one. The CBC rankings are fairy tale products of an elaborate
con game. Statistical techniques are misused to manufacture phony findings while
giving the (false) impression of scientific rigor.

The Fifth Estate's website indicates the statistical methodology was developed
by biostatisticians noted for their work in evaluating health system
performance. Their credentials are impressive. But science doesn't work by
credentials. It works by data, and evidence produced through rational, logical,
analysis. Evidently, researchers substituted extensive data torture for
rationality and logic, the better to hear what was wanted, I guess.

Here's how this data torture took place:

Hospital report card grades were determined by measuring the number of standard
deviations a hospital is from the average for all hospitals. (Standard deviation
is a measure of the variability in the data.) For example, a grade of 'A' is
given to hospital whose standardized performance score is 1 or more standard
deviations from the average. A grade of 'B' is given if the hospital score is
between 0.5 and 0.999 standard deviations better than the average, and so forth
all the way to 'D'. There are three problems with this.

1. The expected operating range of any process is +/- 3 standard deviations.
Using +/- 1 standard deviation means the CBC had to narrow the definition of
expected performance because the data were otherwise unable to produce any
findings. In other words, the data supported no conclusions of scientific or
practical importance so statistical technique was manipulated to manufacture
some.

2. Combined with the system of grades, this data torture transforms measured
ratings into ordinal rankings. If your data proves nothing, ranking makes it
look as though it did. The CBC's report card proves nothing more than that, in a
ranking of hospitals (or anything else), some will be at the top, some at the
bottom, and about half will be below average. I wonder how much the CBC paid to
validate Grade 10 arithmetic?

3. Most importantly, the method rests on a logical fallacy. The report card
standard deviations are the probabilities of obtaining a performance rating,
assuming hospitals are the cause. But the CBC conclusions concern the
probability the hospital is the cause, given the ratings.

It's a statistical sleight of hand called the fallacy of the transposed
conditional, and yes, it's confusing. But that's what makes this con so
effective.

Think of it this way. The CBC measured the probability that a person would die
after jumping off Toronto's CN Tower. It then used these same probabilities to
conclude that a man found dead in Saskatchewan must have jumped from the Toronto
landmark.

Admittedly, the CBC is not alone in using these techniques. They are ubiquitous
in reporting from provincial health systems, quality councils, health ministries
and the Canadian Institute for Healthcare Information. But shouldn't the media
be exposing scientifically incompetent practices rather than promoting them?

The health-care system in Canada has enough problems. It doesn't need hacks
manufacturing new ones.

Robert Gerst is a columnist for Troy Media and partner in charge of operational
excellence and research &statistical methods at Converge Consulting Group Inc.
He is author of "The Performance Improvement Toolkit: The Guide to
Knowledge-Based Improvement" and numerous articles in peer-reviewed
publications. This article was syndicated by TroyMedia.ca

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2013 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 13, 2006 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UPMC URGING DOCTORS TO VOTE TO FORTIFY RANKING

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER SNOWBECK, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 632 words


Politicians aren't the only ones orchestrating get-out-the-vote campaigns this
fall.

Dr. Loren Roth, chief medical officer of the University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center, distributed a letter to local physicians last month in which he
encouraged them to vote early and often for UPMC hospitals should they be among
the lucky doctors asked to participate in U.S. News & World Report magazine's
annual survey of "best hospitals."

Noting the medical center's recent success in the ranking by U.S. News -- UPMC
was rated this year as one of the 14 best hospitals in the nation -- Dr. Roth
told his physicians that: "We would like to build on this upward momentum. Hence
now more than ever, UPMC needs your vote."

"If you receive a survey and respond by selecting a UPMC teaching facility (such
as UPMC Presbyterian Shadyside, Children's Hospital and/or Magee-Womens
Hospital), you can help advance UPMC's ranking," Dr. Roth wrote in the Sept. 20
letter. "In the survey you may list one hospital, several hospitals, or all of
them."

While Dr. Roth was not available for comment yesterday, spokesman Frank
Raczkiewicz said health system officials have sent similar letters for the past
three years or so to remind physicians about the survey, and encourage their
participation.

Mr. Raczkiewicz did not say how many physicians received the letter, which
encourages doctors who are surveyed by U.S. News to alert the marketing office
at UPMC so that officials can "update our database." The September letter
encouraged doctors to submit their surveys in time for the Halloween deadline.

"Only 200 physicians across the United States in each of 16 specialties receive
this survey," Dr. Roth wrote. "Therefore, your response is critical, and holds
tremendous weight."

The U.S. News ranking has become a serious business for hospitals, which often
incorporate accolades from the magazine in their own marketing campaigns. As
such, it's not surprising that hospitals including UPMC would work to get out
the vote, said Betsy Gelb, a professor of marketing and entrepreneurship at the
Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston.

She likened the UPMC outreach to those made by professional baseball teams as
they encourage fans to cast votes in favor of hometown players for the All-Star
Game.

"You're not really influencing their opinion -- I think that is the honest
fact," Ms. Gelb said. "You're trying to get people who would vote for your folks
anyway, to, in effect, go to the polls and do so."

That may be, but it reflects poorly on the U.S. News methodology, said Ken Segel
of the Value Capture Policy Institute, a North Side group that was founded in
part by former Alcoa chairman and U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill.

Some experts in health care quality have long bemoaned the public attention
given to the magazine's rankings, in part because U.S. News uses a hospital's
reputation among physicians as one of its three main data points. A Dartmouth
College study published in Health Affairs during 2004, for example, raised
questions about the magazine's methodology by finding that Medicare patients
with similar chronic conditions receive strikingly different care among
hospitals identified as "best" in geriatrics by U.S. News.

"U.S. News is, in a sense, getting what they deserve by setting up the criteria
in a way that rewards reputation disproportionately," Mr. Segel said. "They need
to really shift the ratings away from reputation and toward hard evidence --
that the right outcomes are being achieved, and the right processes are being
followed."

U.S. News officials did not respond to written questions seeking comment.

Dr. Roth hopes the same won't be true of UPMC physicians.

"We thank you in advance," he wrote, "for casting your vote for one or all of
the eligible UPMC facilities."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at csnowbeck@post-gazette.com or
412-263-2625.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              387 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 13, 2006 Friday
                                 REGION EDITION

UPMC URGING DOCTORS;
TO VOTE TO FORTIFY RANKING

BYLINE: Christopher Snowbeck Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 632 words


Politicians aren't the only ones orchestrating get-out-the-vote campaigns this
fall.

Dr. Loren Roth, chief medical officer of the University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center, distributed a letter to local physicians last month in which he
encouraged them to vote early and often for UPMC hospitals should they be among
the lucky doctors asked to participate in U.S. News & World Report magazine's
annual survey of "best hospitals."

Noting the medical center's recent success in the ranking by U.S. News -- UPMC
was rated this year as one of the 14 best hospitals in the nation -- Dr. Roth
told his physicians that: "We would like to build on this upward momentum. Hence
now more than ever, UPMC needs your vote."

"If you receive a survey and respond by selecting a UPMC teaching facility (such
as UPMC Presbyterian Shadyside, Children's Hospital and/or Magee-Womens
Hospital), you can help advance UPMC's ranking," Dr. Roth wrote in the Sept. 20
letter. "In the survey you may list one hospital, several hospitals, or all of
them."

While Dr. Roth was not available for comment yesterday, spokesman Frank
Raczkiewicz said health system officials have sent similar letters for the past
three years or so to remind physicians about the survey, and encourage their
participation.

Mr. Raczkiewicz did not say how many physicians received the letter, which
encourages doctors who are surveyed by U.S. News to alert the marketing office
at UPMC so that officials can "update our database." The September letter
encouraged doctors to submit their surveys in time for the Halloween deadline.

"Only 200 physicians across the United States in each of 16 specialties receive
this survey," Dr. Roth wrote. "Therefore, your response is critical, and holds
tremendous weight."

The U.S. News ranking has become a serious business for hospitals, which often
incorporate accolades from the magazine in their own marketing campaigns. As
such, it's not surprising that hospitals including UPMC would work to get out
the vote, said Betsy Gelb, a professor of marketing and entrepreneurship at the
Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston.

She likened the UPMC outreach to those made by professional baseball teams as
they encourage fans to cast votes in favor of hometown players for the All-Star
Game.

"You're not really influencing their opinion -- I think that is the honest
fact," Ms. Gelb said. "You're trying to get people who would vote for your folks
anyway, to, in effect, go to the polls and do so."

That may be, but it reflects poorly on the U.S. News methodology, said Ken Segel
of the Value Capture Policy Institute, a North Side group that was founded in
part by former Alcoa chairman and U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill.

Some experts in health care quality have long bemoaned the public attention
given to the magazine's rankings, in part because U.S. News uses a hospital's
reputation among physicians as one of its three main data points. A Dartmouth
College study published in Health Affairs during 2004, for example, raised
questions about the magazine's methodology by finding that Medicare patients
with similar chronic conditions receive strikingly different care among
hospitals identified as "best" in geriatrics by U.S. News.

"U.S. News is, in a sense, getting what they deserve by setting up the criteria
in a way that rewards reputation disproportionately," Mr. Segel said. "They need
to really shift the ratings away from reputation and toward hard evidence --
that the right outcomes are being achieved, and the right processes are being
followed."

U.S. News officials did not respond to written questions seeking comment.

Dr. Roth hopes the same won't be true of UPMC physicians.

"We thank you in advance," he wrote, "for casting your vote for one or all of
the eligible UPMC facilities."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at csnowbeck@post-gazette.com or
412-263-2625.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              388 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 19, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Mayo Clinic Lauded in Quality Rankings, Most Recently by U.S. News & World
Report

LENGTH: 817  words


New Delhi, July 19 -- There are many external agencies that rate quality in
health care and Mayo Clinic is top ranked for quality by more well-known
national assessment organizations than any other academic medical center in the
nation.



"These endorsements reinforce our century-old commitment to provide the highest
quality care to each patient every day. While no single set of measures can
perfectly represent health care quality, we are proud to be recognized by so
many," says John Noseworthy, M.D., Mayo Clinic's president and CEO. "We are
honored by this recognition, and we remain focused on our primary mission:
putting the needs of our patients first and creating for them the best possible,
most trusted and affordable model of health care for the future."

Most recently, Mayo Clinic was highly rated in the 24th U.S. News & World Report
annual America's Best Hospitals list released today. As in 2012, Mayo earned the
No. 3 overall spot on the "Best Hospitals" list. Mayo ranked No. 1 in the nation
in five clinical areas - gynecology, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology, nephrology and pulmonology. In addition, Mayo is ranked No. 2
in five additional specialties - cardiology & heart surgery, ear, nose & throat,
geriatrics, neurology & neurosurgery and orthopedics. Mayo Clinic earned the No.
1 spot in Minnesota, ranked No. 1 in Arizona and specifically in the Phoenix
metro area, and earned the No. 1 rank as best hospital in the Jacksonville area.


Hospitals included in the U.S. News Honor Roll, such as Mayo Clinic, are part of
an elite group recognized for "breadth of excellence," according to the
magazine. To make the magazine's "Honor Roll," a medical center has to rank at
or near the top in at least six specialties included in the rankings. Mayo
Clinic ranked in the top five in 14 specialties of the 16 specialties. Mayo
Clinic landed a ranking of No. 1 or No. 2 in ten of the 12 specialties that are
measured based on reputation, services and volumes, safety and clinical
outcomes.

Mayo Clinic's specialty rankings with links to detailed rankings for each
specialty area are as follows: gynecology (1); diabetes & endocrinology (1);
gastroenterology & GI surgery (1); nephrology (1); pulmonology (1);
cardiology-and-heart-surgery (2); ear, nose & throat(2); geriatrics (2);
neurology & neurosurgery (2); orthopedics (2); cancer (3); rheumatology (3);
urology (3); rehabilitation (5); psychiatry (7); and ophthalmology (15).

The Arizona campus of Mayo Clinic also ranked nationally in cancer (33), ENT
(25), gastroenterology & GI surgery (20), geriatrics (17), gynecology (26),
nephrology (21), neurology & neurosurgery (38), orthopedics (43), pulmonology
(50), and urology (31). In addition, the Arizona campus was recognized as high
performing in cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology, and
rheumatology.

The Florida campus of Mayo Clinic ranked nationally in cancer (34) and was
recognized as high performing in diabetes & endocrinology, ENT, gastroenterology
& GI surgery, geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

Mayo Clinic Health System in Eau Claire is ranked No. 4 in Wisconsin and is
recognized among the Best Hospitals in Northwestern Wisconsin. The Eau Claire
facility is also nationally ranked in urology (No. 50) and was also recognized
as high performing in cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology,
gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics, orthopedics and pulmonology.

Mayo Clinic Health System in Mankato is ranked No. 14 in Minnesota and is
recognized among the Best Hospitals in Southern Minnesota. The Mankato facility
is also recognized as high performing in orthopedics.

"Our employees work diligently every day to make each patient's experience the
best it can be, and that's reflected in the fact that we consistently rank
highly in quality measurements," says Dr. Noseworthy. "We have a deep commitment
to delivering the highest quality care that best meets patients' needs. We owe
our success to truly dedicated staff working together with an unwavering focus
on the patient that I believe is unmatched, anywhere."

Many private organizations and government agencies recognize hospitals for high
levels of quality and safety. Each uses its own assessment of what best
determines hospital quality, and as a result, rankings often differ.

The following organizations recognize Mayo Clinic for high levels of quality and
safety: U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals Honor Roll; UHC Quality
Leadership Award; The Leapfrog Group Top Hospitals; Leapfrog Hospital Safety
Score; ANCC Nursing Magnet status; Consumer Reports hospital safety; The
American College of Surgeons and National Surgical Quality Improvement Program.

The rankings were announced today on U.S. News & World Report web site. Print
versions of the guidebook editions will be on sale starting Aug. 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 8, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition
                              Correction Appended

Markets

SECTION: BUSINESS; Correction; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 524 words



LATE RALLY EVENS DOW: A late surge of bargain hunting left most stock  measures
only slightly lower Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, down  nearly
130 points in the early afternoon, finished 3.98 lower at 7,902.27  after
mounting an 85-point rally over the final 15 minutes of trading. The  rally
wiped out the bulk of the day's losses for most broad-market indicators,  but
the technology group, considered most vulnerable to economic troubles  overseas,
lagged the rebound.

Tampa Bay/State

HOSPITALS IN TOP 100: Four Tampa Bay area hospitals are among the nation's top
100 in a ranking compiled by HCIA Inc. of Baltimore, and William M. Mercer  Inc.
of Washington, D.C. Mease Countryside Hospital in Safety Harbor and
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.'s hospitals in Largo, Brandon and Bradenton were
among 17 Florida hospitals named to the list. Researchers from Mercer and HCIA
reviewed data on quality and cost efficiency from more than 7,000 hospitals to
compile the annual list.

Nation

JUSTICE ENTERS PHONE FRAY: The U.S. Justice Department asked a federal court  in
Texas on Wednesday to delay a decision striking down a key part of the
telecommunications act while the decision is appealed. U.S. District Judge Joe
Kendall ruled last month that a 1996 telecommunications act requirement that
the Baby Bell telephone companies fulfill market-opening requirements before
they offer customers in their regions long-distance service is
unconstitutional. Kendall said the requirement unfairly discriminates against
the regional Bells because other local phone companies aren't held to similar
rules. The Justice Department's request follows similar motions by AT&T Corp.
and MCI Communications Corp.

AOL FIGHTS E-MAIL SPAM: America Online has filed suit against three bulk  e-mail
companies, seeking injunctions and unspecified damages. In a lawsuit  filed in
federal court in Alexandria, Va., on Tuesday, the nation's largest  online
service accused IMS of Knoxville, Tenn., Gulf Coast Marketing of Baton  Rouge,
La., and TSF Marketing of Riverside, Calif., of stuffing members'  electronic
mailboxes with unsolicited bulk e-mails with bogus return addresses  and
refusing to stop when asked by AOL. "We expect to build precedents that  show
spamming is illegal," said George Vradenburg, general counsel for the  online
service. The lawsuit follows a victory for the online company in  December
against Over the Air Equipment Inc., which was enjoined from sending  similar
bulk e-mails to AOL members and forced to pay damages.

Correction

The Rev. Robert B. Inhoff is president and chief executive officer of American
Baptist Homes of the Midwest, which owns Palm Shores Retirement Center in St.
Petersburg. An item in Monday's Business Times was incorrect.

DOW               DOLLAR              YIELD

30 INDUSTRIALS    VS. JAPANESE YEN    30-YEAR U.S. BOND

7902.27           131.25              5.78

-3.98             -2.40              +0.06

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 1998

CORRECTION:
 The list of the nation's top 100 hospitals compiled by HCIA Inc. and William M.
Mercer Inc. includes two Pasco County hospitals as well as four other facilities
in the Tampa Bay area. The hospitals on the list are Columbia / HCA Healthcare
Corp. hospitals in Dade City, New Port Richey, Largo, Brandon and Bradenton, as
well as Mease Countryside Hospital in Safety Harbor. An item in Wednesday's
editions did not include the Pasco hospitals.

TYPE: CORRECTION; DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company

                              390 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                  ML2 Edition

High degree of care Suburban hospitals fare well in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: By Deborah Donovan ddonovan@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 658 words


U.S. News gives kudos to suburban hospitals for their performance in 16
specialized areas, in their annual rankings published online Tuesday.

The publication puts these suburban hospitals in the top 25 percent nationally
in the specialties for which they were listed.

Forty-four of 121 Chicago area hospitals were ranked as "high performing" in one
or more specialties.

U.S. News & World Report presents its rankings every year. This year they are
based on data from 2007-2009.

In most specialties the rankings rely on hard data for Medicare patients such as
death rates and number of patients. Surveys of specialist physicians are
important, and ratio of nurses to patients is also taken into consideration.

In four specialties, ophthalmology, psychiatry, rehabilitation and rheumatology,
the ranking is solely by reputation among specialists.

The U.S. News website assures readers that in most situations people can get
great care by going to a good hospital, and only the most difficult cases would
need the expertise at the best centers in the country.

Here are the suburban hospitals that made this year's list, how they rank in the
Chicago area, and the specialties labeled "high performing" by the publication.

* Alexian Brothers Medical

Center, Elk Grove Village. Ranked seventh in the Chicago area based on the
following specialties: Cancer; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology; geriatrics; gynecology; heart and heart surgery; kidney
disorders; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

* St. Alexius Medical Center, Hoffman Estates. Tied for ninth in the Chicago
area, for: Cancer; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology; geriatrics; gynecology; kidney disorders; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; and pulmonology.

* Advocate Good Samaritan, Downers Grove. Tied for 11th, for: Cancer; diabetes
and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology; geriatrics;
gynecology; kidney disorders; pulmonology; and urology.

* Central DuPage Hospital, Winfield, tied for 11th: Ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology; geriatrics; gynecology; heart and heart surgery; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

* Provena St. Joseph, Joliet, tied for 11th: Cancer; gastroenterology;
geriatrics; gynecology; kidney disorders; neurology and neurosurgery;
orthopedics; pulmonology; urology.

* Northwest Community, Arlington Heights, ranked 16th: Ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology; gynecology; kidney disorder; orthopedics; urology.

* Advocate Lutheran General, Park Ridge, tied for 17th: Cancer; ear, nose and
throat; gastroenterology; gynecology; urology.

* Provena St. Joseph, Elgin, tied for 17th: Diabetes and endocrinology;
gastroenterology; geriatrics; neurology and neurosurgery; and orthopedics.

* Adventist Hinsdale, tied for 23rd: Ear, nose and throat; gynecology; and
orthopedics.

* Edward Hospital, Naperville, tied for 23rd: Gastroenterology; orthopedics; and
urology.

* Sherman Hospital, Elgin, tied for 23rd: Diabetes and endocrinology;
geriatrics; and kidney disorder.

* Advocate Condell, Libertyville, tied for 30th: Kidney disorder; and urology.

* Rush-Copley, Aurora, tied for 30th: Gynecology; and orthopedics.

* Advocate Good Shepherd, Barrington, tied for 35th: Heart and heart surgery.

* Delnor Community, Geneva, tied for 35th: Gynecology.

Five major Chicago area hospitals were ranked best in the country: Northwestern
Memorial with national rankings in 13 specialties; University of Chicago in 12
areas; Rush University in 10 areas; Loyola University in four; University of
Illinois and Rehabilitation Institute each in one.

Children's hospitals are ranked separately. Children's Memorial and University
of Chicago are at the top of the ratings and Advocate Hope in Oak Lawn and Rush
Children's also ranked.

The complete list of best hospitals in the Chicago area is at
health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/area/chicago-il/specialty

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mark Black/mblack@dailyherald.com The view from one of from one of the
Quiet Lounges in the new South Pavilion at Northwest Community Hospital in
Arlington Heights, which looks out over the golf course. Mark
Black/mblack@dailyherald.com The view from one of from one of the Quiet Lounges
in the new South Pavilion at Northwest Community Hospital in Arlington Heights,
which looks out over the golf course. Mark Black/mblack@dailyherald.com The view
from one of from one of the Quiet Lounges in the new South Pavilion at Northwest
Community Hospital in Arlington Heights, which looks out over the golf course.
Mark Black/mblack@dailyherald.com The view from one of from one of the Quiet
Lounges in the new South Pavilion at Northwest Community Hospital in Arlington
Heights, which looks out over the golf course.Courtesy Edward HospitalEdward
Hospital in Naperville has grown into a regional health care provider with
word-class cardiac, cancer and stroke care. Courtesy Edward Hospital
 Edward Hospital in Naperville was ranked in three specialties by U.S. News.

 Mark Black/mblack@dailyherald.com
 This is a "quiet lounge" at Northwest Community Hospital in Arlington Heights.
The hospital was ranked in six specialties by U.S. News.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              391 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday
                                2 Tampa Edition

TWO TAMPA HOSPITALS GET HIGH MARKS FROM U.S. NEWS

BYLINE: MICHAEL A. MOHAMMED, Times Staff Writer

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Two Tampa hospitals had a total of seven departments place among the nation's 50
best in the U.S. News & World Report's 2007 rankings.

Four medical specialties at Tampa General Hospital - gynecology, kidney disease,
urology and ear, nose and throat - made the list for the first time. A fifth,
orthopedics, appeared for the third year in a row.

H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute made the cancer list for the
ninth consecutive year, and its ear, nose and throat department made the list
for the first time.

Tampa General vice president Deana Nelson called the rankings, released Friday,
a "big morale booster."

It also can affect a hospital's income, she added, because Medicare and
insurance companies "are moving toward systems where they can quantify quality
and pay accordingly."

TGH's gynecology and obstetrics department made a particularly big leap. Not
ranked in the top 100 in 2006, it broke into this year's list at No. 25, said
the department chief, Dr. James Mayer.

"It was a total surprise," he said, but said a handful of renowned experts in
women's medicine raised the program's profile when they arrived at the hospital
this year. A brand new women's center will add labor, examination and operating
rooms next year.

Only 173 of the country's 5,462 hospitals, or about 3.2 percent, made the top 50
in any category, said Avery Comarow, who edits the rankings.

Scores depend on a program's reputation, death rate and quality of care. To
determine reputation, U.S. News asks doctors to list the top five hospitals in
their field.

Surprisingly, three of Tampa General's departments and one of Moffitt's made the
top 50 without being mentioned by a single surveyed doctor. They compensated
with strong scores in the other areas, Comarow said.

The rankings are meant to help patients with hard-to-treat conditions find the
best treatment, he said.

"If whatever they needed was done commonly, it wouldn't be a problem" to find
good care. "That's not who we're aiming at."

But Comarow cautioned patients not to depend solely on the ratings. When he
needed an unusual heart surgery, he found the right surgeon at a hospital that
didn't make the top 50 in the heart category that year, he said.

Michael A. Mohammed can be reached at mmohammed@sptimes.com or (813) 226-3404.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  July 07, 2000, Friday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Moffitt moves up in rankings of cancer treatment centers

BYLINE: WES ALLISON

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The Tampa research facility is rated 22nd, up from 34th in the nation last year.

The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute again has been ranked
one of the nation's top hospitals for cancer treatment.

The July 17 issue of U.S. News & World Report rated Moffitt 22nd out of 50
hospitals. Last year, Moffitt ranked 34th.

"We feel that this is a reflection of our outstanding research and clinical
expertise and our continuing emphasis on bringing new discoveries to bear on the
treatment and care of our patients," Dr. John C. Ruckdeschel, the center's
director, said in a statement.

Moffitt, at the University of South Florida in Tampa, is the state's only
National Cancer Institute research center and regularly conducts research and
clinical trials of national significance. Its physicians also teach at USF.

The magazine ranked hospitals in 16 specialties, including cancer, pediatrics,
orthopedics, geriatrics and cardiology. It based the rankings on reputation,
mortality rates,  procedures offered, nursing care and other factors.

First overall, for excelling in many specialties, was Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore, followed by the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. First in cancer care
was the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.

No other Tampa Bay-area hospitals made any of the lists, although several
hospitals elsewhere in Florida were honored: Shands at the University of Florida
in Gainesville was ranked 35th in cancer care, compared with 23rd place last
year. Shands also ranked 48th in the treatment of digestive disorders.

In cardiology, Orlando Regional Medical Center ranked 24th, while its neighbor,
Florida Hospital Medical Center, placed 41st. Martin Memorial Medical Center in
Stuart was ranked 45th for treating respiratory disorders.

In the pediatrics category, which was ranked by reputation alone, Jackson
Memorial Hospital at the University of Miami was 21st of 22 hospitals.

The America's Best Hospitals issue of the magazine hits news stands Monday.


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company

                              393 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

Health briefs for July 18

LENGTH: 385 words


U.S. News names Maine Medical Center state's top hospital


PORTLAND, Maine -- U.S. News & World Report again has named Maine Medical Center
the top hospital in Maine while recognizing eight of the institution's
specialties -- cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology -- as high-performing in its
2014-15 survey of U.S. hospitals. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings,
now in its 25th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients.


The rankings are freely available at health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and will
appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2015 guidebook, available in
August.Bucksport to host open house and health fair


BUCKSPORT, Maine -- An open house and health fair will be held in celebration of
National Health Center Week 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Aug. 13, at Bucksport Regional Health
Center, 110 Broadway. Meet community health organizations and take part in
health screenings.Center for Grieving Children needs support group volunteers


PORTLAND, Maine -- The Center for Grieving Children is looking for volunteer
facilitators for its peer support groups at its Portland and Sanford service
sites.


Facilitators work with children and their families one afternoon or evening per
week, depending on the program. All facilitators complete a comprehensive
35-hour training before leading a support group. Facilitators are needed for the
Tender Living Care Program for families affected by serious illness; Bereavement
Peer Support in both Portland and Sanford; and Multicultural Peer Support
Program.


Orientation sessions for potential volunteers will be held noon-1 p.m. Thursday,
Aug. 14, and 5:30-6:30 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 11, at the Portland facility, 555
Forest Ave.; and 6-7 p.m. Thursday, July 22, and 5-6 p.m. Wednesday, Aug. 27, at
the Sanford facility, 893 Main St. To sign up, call Sue Calhoun at 775-5216. For
information, visit cgcmaine.org.First Aid and CPR classes offered


FOREST CITY TOWNSHIP, Maine -- Danforth Fire Department will conduct a
certification class for First Aid and CPR 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 16, at
the Woodie Wheaton Land Trust Center, 2 Grove Road, Forest City Township. The
cost is $20 per person. Contact Patty at the WWLT to register. Registration is
required.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News

                              394 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

Health briefs for July 18

LENGTH: 385 words


U.S. News names Maine Medical Center state's top hospital


PORTLAND, Maine -- U.S. News & World Report again has named Maine Medical Center
the top hospital in Maine while recognizing eight of the institution's
specialties -- cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology -- as high-performing in its
2014-15 survey of U.S. hospitals. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings,
now in its 25th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients.


The rankings are freely available at health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and will
appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2015 guidebook, available in
August.Bucksport to host open house and health fair


BUCKSPORT, Maine -- An open house and health fair will be held in celebration of
National Health Center Week 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Aug. 13, at Bucksport Regional Health
Center, 110 Broadway. Meet community health organizations and take part in
health screenings.Center for Grieving Children needs support group volunteers


PORTLAND, Maine -- The Center for Grieving Children is looking for volunteer
facilitators for its peer support groups at its Portland and Sanford service
sites.


Facilitators work with children and their families one afternoon or evening per
week, depending on the program. All facilitators complete a comprehensive
35-hour training before leading a support group. Facilitators are needed for the
Tender Living Care Program for families affected by serious illness; Bereavement
Peer Support in both Portland and Sanford; and Multicultural Peer Support
Program.


Orientation sessions for potential volunteers will be held noon-1 p.m. Thursday,
Aug. 14, and 5:30-6:30 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 11, at the Portland facility, 555
Forest Ave.; and 6-7 p.m. Thursday, July 22, and 5-6 p.m. Wednesday, Aug. 27, at
the Sanford facility, 893 Main St. To sign up, call Sue Calhoun at 775-5216. For
information, visit cgcmaine.org.First Aid and CPR classes offered


FOREST CITY TOWNSHIP, Maine -- Danforth Fire Department will conduct a
certification class for First Aid and CPR 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 16, at
the Woodie Wheaton Land Trust Center, 2 Grove Road, Forest City Township. The
cost is $20 per person. Contact Patty at the WWLT to register. Registration is
required.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News

                              395 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Brigham and Women's Hospital Ranked 13 on US News, World Report Honor Roll of
Best Hospitals

LENGTH: 356  words


Aug. 2 -- Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) has once again earned a spot on the
U.S. News & World Report Honor Roll of America's Best Hospitals for the 24th
consecutive year, ranking 13th in 2016.

"I'm extremely proud of our continued presence on the Honor Roll of Best
Hospitals, which is possible because of our employees' steadfast commitment to
carrying out our mission," said Betsy Nabel, MD, president of Brigham and
Women's Health Care. "More important than any awards or accolades we receive is
the way we work together to provide comfort to those entrusted to our care and
offer hope for patients around the world."

Twelve BWH specialties achieved rankings, including: Cancer, Cardiology & Heart
Surgery, Gynecology, Nephrology, Pulmonary, Rheumatology, Diabetes and Endocrine
Disorders, Geriatric Care, Neurology and Neurosurgery, Gastroenterology & GI
Surgery, Urology and Orthopedics.

Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at
http://www.brighamandwomens.org/about_bwh/publicaffairs/news/pressreleases/Press
Release.aspx?sub=0&PageID;=2472)

"While we were disappointed to learn that we didn't maintain last year's rank of
number six, we are delighted that we continue to be recognized by U.S. News &
World Report on their Honor Roll of America's top hospitals," Nabel said.

U.S. News performs a comprehensive, nation-wide evaluation of hospitals in 16
adult specialties and composes the lists of top hospitals and specialties.
According to U.S. News & World Report, "the Best Hospitals Honor Roll has been
revamped for 2016-17 to take both the national rankings and the procedure and
condition ratings into account. Hospitals received points if they were
nationally ranked in one of the 16 specialties - the higher they ranked, the
more points they got - and how many ratings of "high performing" they earned in
the nine procedures and conditions. The top 20 point-getters made up the Honor
Roll." The complete listing of America's Best Hospitals can be found online and
will be published in the magazine's August issue as part of its 2016-2017 Best
Hospitals guide.

Source: Brigham and Women's Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Wenatchee World (Washington)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 25, 2009 Tuesday

Medical Center tops Consumer Reports list

BYLINE: Dee Riggs, The Wenatchee World, Wash.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


Aug. 25--WENATCHEE -- Expect to find excellent communication between patients
and medical staff at Wenatchee Valley Hospital.

The facility, operated by the Wenatchee Valley Medical Center, just got the top
ranking in Washington state for communication skills, according to Consumer
Reports.

The main criterion was not quality of care, but how well doctors and nurses
communicate with patients, magazine officials said. The results, all patient
opinions, were published online this month through Consumer Reports.

"We are really pleased," said Dr. David Weber, the medical center's chief
executive officer and chairman of the board of directors. "Communication has
been an emphasis of ours."

Of the 58 hospitals ranked in the state, Wenatchee Valley Hospital garnered the
most points for patient services -- with a heavy emphasis on communication
skills -- at 85 out of 100. The only other hospital ranked in North Central
Washington, Wenatchee's Central Washington Hospital, received 66 points.

That is about the middle of the state rankings, in which the Auburn Regional
Medical Center came in at the lowest level with 47 points. Consumer Reports
officials said the national average was 65.

The results were based on patient surveys collected by the federal government's
Hospital Consumer Assessments of Healthcare Providers and Systems Survey,
Consumer Reports officials said. Not all hospitals were ranked. Criteria
included those turning in a large number of patient surveys. Consumer Reports
officials said they plan to update the lists quarterly, as more data are turned
in.

At Central Washington Hospital, quality coordinator Jane Budden said she was
disappointed in the hospital's ranking but was not surprised.

Tracey Kasnic, the hospital's vice president of patient care services, said
Central Washington Hospital offers such services as open heart surgery,
neurosurgery and end-of-life care, which are not offered at Wenatchee Valley
Hospital and which result in a higher intensity of care, which can cause more
stress for patients.

The survey ranked both hospitals high for doctor and nurse communication with
patients.

Wenatchee Valley Hospital ranked higher than CWH, however, on its discharge
instructions, communications about medications and quietness of the rooms.

The survey ranked more than 3,200 hospitals in the nation. The results are
available for subscribers at www.consumerreportshealth.org.

Dee Riggs: 664-7147

deeriggs@wenatcheeworld.com

To see more of The Wenatchee World or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.wenworld.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Wenatchee World, Wash.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090825-ZY-Medical-Center-tops-Consumer-Reports-list-0825

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZY


                                 Copyright 2009

                              397 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      May 29, 2005 Sunday ST. PAUL EDITION

HEALTH INSURANCE TIERS MUST MEASURE VALUE, NOT JUST COST

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 714 words


Fast forward about five years. You've just been diagnosed with diabetes. You
turn to a statewide "tier" ranking system that shows the doctors and hospitals
with the best success rates in treating diabetes. The system also shows which
providers achieve that outcome at the lowest out-of-pocket cost to you. You scan
the information, and call to make an appointment. For now, Minnesota is slowly
moving in that idealized direction. Two health insurance companies -- Blue Cross
and Blue Shield of Minnesota and Medica -- will roll out tiered ranking systems
next year that categorize medical providers based on cost and effectiveness. The
state of Minnesota earlier implemented a tiered coverage system, the Minnesota
Advantage Health Plan, for 120,000 state employees and dependents. And starting
it all, HealthPartners introduced a tiering system a decade ago that intertwined
best medical practices with costs.

All health-care consumers will benefit if insurers and providers use this new
system to measure not only cost, but value. Focusing solely on cost might make
fiscal sense in the near term, but would almost certainly cost employers and
individual consumers more in the long run.

CHANGE IS NECESSARY

Changes in the health-care industry are imperative. Patients, doctors, insurance
companies -- all must take more active roles if Minnesota is to retain its
reputation for high-quality health care. The "tier" ranking system, when it
focuses on quality and cost in a format easily accessible and understandable to
patients, is one promising approach.

The subject arose earlier this month when Blue Cross and Blue Shield came under
fire for one aspect of its proposal to put providers in one of two tiers, with
patients paying more for access to "second tier" doctors and hospitals. Doctors
objected to being categorized based on whether or not they were affiliated with
the lower-cost Blue Cross-preferred hospitals. Earlier this month, Blue Cross
decided to drop doctors from its rankings, focusing instead on hospitals and
clinics. We're glad Blue Cross, as the state's largest health insurer, stepped
back to reconsider its methodology of doctor ranking. The financial efficiency
of a hospital is important, but doctors' rankings should be more than a
reflection of a hospital ledger.

Ultimately doctors, too, will need to make changes if a statewide tier system is
to work. HealthPartners, for example, created a model for diabetes treatment
based on best practices recommended by the Institute for Clinic System
Improvement. The HMO then looked at the performances of the clinics in its
network and tracked patient care.

The hospitals and clinics that had the best outcomes -- fewer diabetes-related
amputations or heart disease for example -- received more compensation. Those
providers were also graded on cost containment. It's hard to imagine that a
physician would turn a blind eye to a proven form of treatment, but it happens.
An effective tier system underscores best practices and rewards practitioners
for their use of them. Of HealthPartners 630,000 members, 150,000 participate in
the tier system, which is believed to be the largest tier system group in the
country.

CONSUMERS HAVE ROLE, TOO

Keep in mind patients, also, must become better advocates for themselves. Most
patients are unaware of the best way to treat a disease, yet medical research
shows certain treatments are highly effective. Patients will need to become more
proactive and ask about best medical practices with the same ease today that
they ask about drugs advertised on television.

While we're pleased to see more and more insurers move to a tier system that
evaluates costs and outcomes, we'd like to see more consistency and agreement on
effective treatment. That information needs to be made available to the public
in an understandable form.

Everyone -- consumers, providers and insurers -- have a role in reshaping the
health care system. Health plans must make their information to patients more
transparent. Insurers have to establish bonds of trust with medical providers so
accurate information can be freely exchanged. And consumers need to ask more
questions and make more demands for the best medical practices.

Change is difficult but necessary.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

Teamwork returns Mayo Clinic to No. 1

BYLINE: Brett Boese, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 647 words


Aug. 02--After a year holding the red ribbon, Mayo Clinic has reclaimed the
coveted top spot in U.S. News & World Reports Best Hospitals rankings.

The new rankings, released today, recognized the Rochester-based health care
facility for its "breadth of excellence." Mayo finished No. 1 in eight of the 12
specialties, while also claiming the top spot for such categories as reputation,
mortality index, patient safety, nurse staffing and Magnet status, patient
services and technology.

Massachusetts General Hospital earned the top spot in last year's rankings,
while Mayo finished second. Massachusetts General is third in this year's
rankings. Cleveland Clinic is ranked No. 2. Johns Hopkins Hospital is No. 4.

Mayo received 418 points in U.S. News' scoring system. Cleveland Clinic had 378
points, Massachusetts General 371 points, and Johns Hopkins 349 points.

Mayo CEO John Noseworthy says the new ranking "affirms the Mayo care model."

"This basically demonstrates why Mayo has the most trusted name in health care
globally," Noseworthy said. "That's why patients come from 140 countries and 50
states."

Mayo sits atop the rankings thanks to its stellar performance in the individual
specialties that were measured by the magazine. It ranked first in more
specialties than any other hospital in the country, including diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology, and urology.

Additionally, Mayo ranked second in orthopedics, cardiology and heart surgery,
and ear, nose, and throat care. It finished third in cancer care.

Noseworthy says he's most proud of Mayo's team-based care model, rather than the
work of any specific discipline.

"What we're really really good at is this physician-led team ... where all these
experts work together," Noseworthy said. "That's the system we've engineered
over the past (150) years. That's really our sweet spot.

"You don't have to beg from favors from your colleagues because you're all
working toward the same goal. That's really the secret sauce for our success."

U.S. News & World Report has been compiling its list of best hospitals for 27
years, but didn't actually declare an overall No. 1 until 2014. Mayo has claimed
top honors in two of the three years since then.

Mayo was ranked as the top health care facility in three different states:
Minnesota, Arizona and Florida. While the main Minnesota campus is in the midst
of an ambitious $6 billion, 20-year expansion project dubbed Destination Medical
Center, Noseworthy specifically cited Mayo's Florida campus as a site that's
made major strides in recent years.

Thanks largely to an aggressive recruiting effort for highly trained specialists
made at the Jacksonville site, Mayo's ranking in Florida has risen from fifth in
2014 to fourth in 2015, to No. 1 in the latest analysis.

"We've been steadily working on (working) together across the disciplines across
the sites," Noseworthy said. "There's been a strong refocus in Florida and
Arizona to establish them as regional, national and international care centers."

Noseworthy said that the new rankings will be shared with Mayo staff right away,
and banners will be hung at some facilities to mark the occasion. He says Mayo's
top rankings are critical to attracting new patients from across the globe, many
of whom consult the U.S. News & World Report rankings before deciding where to
seek treatment.

However, the news won't change anything from the initial vision and mission of
the Mayo brothers.

"We've been the most trusted name in health care for a very long time, according
to market research," Noseworthy said. "This ranking, it's wonderful to have
achieved it and earned it, but it's not going to change anything we do."

___ (c)2016 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160802-RC-Teamwork-returns-Mayo-Clinic-to-No-1-0802-20160802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2016 Post-Bulletin

                              399 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 10, 1999, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Suncoast hospitals make list of best

BYLINE: SUE LANDRY

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 622 words



The Tampa treatment center ranks 34th on a national list of cancer care
facilities. A Pasco hospital ranks 50th for cardiology.

The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute in Tampa and Regional
Medical Center at Bayonet Point in Hudson have been named for the first time to
a list of the nation's top hospitals compiled each year by U.S. News and World
Report.

Moffitt ranks 34th on a list of the best hospitals in the specialty of cancer
care, a list topped by such big names as Memorial Sloan-Kettering in New York
and the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center at the University of Texas in Houston.

The only other Florida hospital on the cancer list is Shands Hospital at the
University of Florida in Gainesville, which ranked 23rd.

"This makes us very proud," said Nick Porter, Moffitt's chief executive.

The Bayonet Point hospital ranked 50th in the specialty of cardiology and heart
surgery behind facilities such as the Cleveland Clinic and the Mayo Clinic.

"That is our primary specialty. For a lot of years, no one recognized that,"
said Chris Hyers, the hospital's vice president of marketing.

In compiling the rankings in 12 specialties, U.S. News and World Report takes
into account death rates, availability of key technologies and the number of
registered nurses per bed. But a third of the score is based on the hospital's
reputation among specialists in the field.

Because of the reliance on reputation, some experts say the list favors older,
more established institutions and larger institutions. Moffitt, which opened in
1986, is quite young compared to many other hospitals on the list.

"We want consumers to know that this is just one resource they have in terms of
all the things they have to consider in choosing a hospital," said Dionne
Dougall, spokeswoman for the American Hospital Association. "If someone's local
hospital is not on the list, I definitely don't think that's an indication that
they're not a good hospital."

Moffitt's inclusion on the list this year reflects its growing national
reputation, Porter said.

"Our reputation clearly has grown exponentially over the past four years,"
Porter said. "I was at (Johns) Hopkins for 18 years before I came here, and an
institution like that that has 110 years worth of history, clearly their
reputation becomes spectacular. We are a very bright diamond but we tend to be a
bit smaller than the other diamonds that are out there."

Hyers said Bayonet Point has been building a reputation for top-notch cardiac
surgery for years and has been listed high in a number of studies and rankings.

Making the U.S. News and World Report list means the hospital's reputation is
getting to be known more widely, he said.

"We sit in Hudson. We're definitely not at the epicenter of the Tampa Bay
market, yet we have felt for a long time that we do as good quality work as
anywhere, so getting some recognition of that is very validating for the staff,"

 Hyers said. "Recognition of this caliber would have come to this program a lot
sooner if we were just down the road a half hour."

Five other Florida hospitals are recognized in the listings.

Shands Hospital at the University of Florida in Gainesville is named in five
specialties - cancer, gynecology, digestive disorders, orthopedics and ear, nose
and throat. Jackson Memorial Hospital at the University of Miami is named in six
specialties - digestive disorders, geriatrics, gynecology, eyes, pediatrics and
ear, nose and throat.

Florida Hospital Medical Center in Orlando, Lakeland Regional Medical Center and
Winter Haven Hospital are listed among the top 50 in hormonal disorders.

(RANKING OF AMERICA'S TOP HOSPITALS NOT PROVIDED ELECTRONICALLY, PLEASE SEE
MICROFILM.)


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CHART; Ranks America's top hospitals

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company

                              400 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 19, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Cedars-Sinai Ranked Among Best in 2013-14 U.S. News & World Report Best
Hospitals Issue

LENGTH: 118  words


New Delhi, July 19 -- Cedars-Sinai has been named to the Honor Roll in the
2013-14 issue of America's Best Hospitals by U.S. News & World Report, with 12
of the medical center's specialties rated among the finest in the nation.



Out of nearly 5,000 hospitals surveyed for the annual rankings, Cedars-Sinai is
among just 18 hospitals nationwide to earn the magazine's Honor Roll
designation. To be named to the Honor Roll, a hospital must be rated among the
nation's top 50 programs in at least six specialties.

Cedars-Sinai also is in the elite group of hospitals that had more than 10
specialties among the top 50 nationally. Just 3 percent of the nation's
hospitals earned a national ranking in a single specialty.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 24, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

U.S News & World Report Ranks Hudson Valley Hospital Center Among Best in
Geriatric Care

LENGTH: 205  words


July 28 -- US's Hudson Valley Hospital Center issued the following news release:

Hudson Valley Hospital Center has been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as
among the top hospitals in the care of older adults.

According to the magazine's recently released annual report on the nation's best
hospitals, Hudson Valley Hospital Center received a regional ranking in
geriatric care. Death rates, patient safety and hospital reputation were a few
of the many factors considered.

HVHC's status as a Magnet Hospital for nursing excellence also weighed in the
decision. Only 144 hospitals were nationally ranked in a specialty.

The U.S. News & World Report ranking follows the Hospital's being chosen as only
one of four hospitals in New York State to be rated a top notch geriatric
"NICHE" hospital by the prestigious NYU College of Nursing.

In March, Nurses Improving Care for Healthsystem Elders (NICHE) released a list
of nine hospitals that achieved Exemplar status for the progress of their
nurse-driven programs in raising the level of quality in care of older adult
patients.

HVHC was the only hospital in the region to receive this honor. Exemplar is the
highest of four levels of recognition.

Source: Hudson Valley Hospital Center

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday

Bibek Koirala joins Reliant med team

SECTION: HEALTH; MEDICAL MEMOS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 388 words


Reliant Medical Group announced the addition of Dr. Bibek Koirala to its medical
team. Dr. Koirala, an internist, will practice in Reliant Medical Group's
Department of Hospital Medicine at Worcester Medical Center (St. Vincent
Hospital).

He received his medical degree from Tribhuvan University in Kathmandu, Nepal. He
completed his internship and residency at Staten Island University Hospital in
Staten Island, N.Y. He is a candidate for certification from the American Board
of Internal Medicine.

UMass Memorial Medical Center has received 3-star rankings from the prestigious
Society of Thoracic Surgeons for two cardiac surgery procedures: coronary artery
bypass surgery

and aortic valve replacement surgery. Three stars is the highest quality ranking
given by STS. It is the sixth year in a row that UMass Memorial has received the
award for CABG surgery; the AVR ratings were released for the first time this
May. These are the only two surgeries that are currently rated by STS.

Only 3.2 percent of the 968 cardiac surgery programs nationwide earned the
3-star designation for AVR. The first release of the AVR data was done with
results from 2009 to 2011. The programs were evaluated based on patient
outcomes, number of deaths and complications.

Since 2006, when the first rankings were released by STS, the Cardiac Surgery
Program has consistently received the 3-star designation for CABG, achieved by
only 14 percent of hospitals nationwide.

The UMass Memorial program also had the lowest infection rates in Massachusetts
for CABG surgeries according to the most recent report from the Massachusetts
Department of Public Health.

With this latest ranking and others, the UMass Memorial Cardiac Surgery Program
remains a national leader in providing the highest quality care and services to
patients and their families.

UMass Memorial Health Care's Ronald McDonald Care Mobile provides medical and
dental services to people without health or dental insurance. The Care Mobile
will be providing services on Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 9 a.m. to 3
p.m. at the Worcester Department of Public Health at 25 Meade St. in Worcester.

For more information or to make an appointment, call (508) 334-6073. If you need
medical or dental insurance, call (508) 334-9300.

Send information for Medical Memos to submissions@telegram.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Dr. Koirala

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

Three Ohio children's hospital's are in the top ten overall

BYLINE: William K. Alcorn, Vindicator, Youngstown, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 436 words


June 10--AKRON -- Akron Children's Hospital, with two facilities in Boardman, is
ranked nationally in seven pediatric specialties, according to U.S. News & World
Report's 2014-15 Best Children's Hospitals report.

Its local facilities are Akron Children's Mahoning Valley, 6505 Market St., and
the pediatric hospital's neonatal intensive-care unit in St. Elizabeth Boardman
Health Care Center, 8401 Market.

Boston Children's Hospital Medical Center and Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia tied for first place on the Honor Roll, which highlights pediatric
centers that provide high-quality care in three or more specialties of the 10
specialities rated.

Of the 89 ranked hospitals, 10 -- including three in Ohio -- earned a place on
the Honor Roll, according to the magazine report.

Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Nationwide Children's Hospital in
Columbus and Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC garnered national overall
rankings of third, seventh and tied for eighth, respectively.

Akron Children's, a teaching hospital, is one of 89 facilities nationally ranked
in at least one of 10 specialties rated in the 2014-15 Best Children's Hospitals
survey.

Included in Akron Children's national rankings are neonatology, No. 33, and
orthopedics, No. 45.

A 372-bed children's general facility with 9,453 admissions in the most recent
year reported, Akron Children's performed 3,316 annual inpatient and 12,025
outpatient surgeries. Its emergency room had 101,626 visits.

The information used to determine the rankings is provided by the American
Hospital Association, which compiles data on all U.S. hospitals through an
annual survey and from other sources.

U.S. News says in a release that while relatively few children face
life-threatening or rare conditions or have to go through complicated
operations, some do, and they need expertise that a typical hospital, where
nearly all inpatients are adults, cannot provide.

Even a hospital with a busy maternity unit may not be equipped to deal with a
newborn who weighs a few pounds or has a defective heart. Nor do most hospitals
see large numbers of children with wide-ranging cancers or respiratory illnesses
or kidney conditions. And even among hospitals that do, the reality, as it is
for hospitals that treat adult patients, is that some places are better than
others.

That is why U.S. News, in 2007, began using data to rank medical centers on
their ability to help the children who most need it, according to the release.

___ (c)2014 Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) Visit Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) at
www.vindy.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140610-YU-Three-Ohio-children-s-hospital
-s-are-in-the-top-ten-overall-0610-20140610

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YU


                           Copyright 2014 Vindicator

                              404 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                            July 24, 2008, Thursday

CAMC set to open floor of building

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P7A

LENGTH: 392 words


The first occupants of the new five-floor Robert C. Byrd Ambulatory Building at
CAMC Memorial Hospital could be moved in as soon as next week.

The Charleston division of West Virginia University's Health Sciences Center
will move some operations into the building's fifth-floor offices and clinics,
and doctors will begin seeing patients Monday, said David Ramsey, CAMC's chief
executive officer.

The building, which also will house two cardiac catheterization labs, will be
fully open by January. Different departments will move in as lower floors are
ready.

"Everybody's pretty excited about it, as a modern medical education facility,"
Ramsey said after the CAMC Board of Trustees met Wednesday.

The board also authorized an application for 34 more acute care beds at
Memorial. The beds have already been placed at the hospital for use in
preparation and post-procedure observation, but need to be licensed by the
Health Care Authority. The process could take several weeks, but the cost will
be only for the application fees.

Though CAMC hospitals admitted about 5 percent fewer patients this June than a
year ago, that doesn't reflect the actual number of beds occupied, said Larry
Hudson, CAMC's chief financial officer. When patients stay longer than expected
or need observation without meeting the criteria for admissions, the hospital
can still need more beds.

"Memorial is so full that we think we will clearly be able to show the Health
Care Authority there's a need," Ramsey said. The state authority must sign off
on major projects for West Virginia hospitals.

The CAMC board is also waiting to hear the results from its Trauma Survey
evaluation last week by the American College of Surgeons.

Hospitals are evaluated every three years by the ACS and receive a ranking of
their ability to provide emergency medical services. The survey team must
discuss its evaluations with a committee, but Ramsey said the response from the
survey team indicates a Level I ranking is likely, meaning CAMC would be
equipped to manage the highest level of emergency care.

Ramsey said the hospital is already designated as a Level 1 center by the state,
but was given a Level II ranking by the ACS during the last evaluation. However,
the hospital has increased its research activity in the last three years, a
deficiency for the Level 1 criteria in the last ranking.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers

                              405 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: HON. DANIEL WEBSTER OF FLORIDA IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 15, 2014

LENGTH: 322  words

DATELINE: Washington


The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following Speech:

Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, Arnold Palmer Medical Center in Orlando,
Florida has, once again, been recognized as one of the best children's hospitals
in the country by U.S. News & World Report. Arnold Palmer Medical Center,
comprised of Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children and Winnie Palmer Hospital for
Women & Babies, was ranked by U.S. News & World Report in eight different
specialties this year--the most they have ever received.

In 2007, U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in order to
help

[Page: E1158] GPO's PDF

families find the best medical care available for their children. These rankings
include detailed information about the hospitals' performance and their
reputation in the pediatric community.

Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children is a world-class facility dedicated
exclusively to the needs of children. The hospital provides expertise in
pediatric specialties and is known for its excellence in cardiac care,
neurology, orthopedics and sports medicine.

Adjacently, the Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women & Babies is a 285-bed facility
dedicated to the care of women and babies. It is a national leader in neonatal
intensive care and is highly regarded for providing comprehensive healthcare for
women throughout all stages of life.

Both of these institutions are Magnet-designated for their commitment to quality
patient care, safety, research, and service excellence. Arnold Palmer Medical
Center attributes its many accolades to the high level of care its medical team
provides every day. I take comfort in knowing that the women and children of
Central Florida have access to the nation's best care close to home. It is my
distinct pleasure to recognize Arnold Palmer Medical Center for their dedication
to the Central Florida community.

For more information please visit: http://thomas.loc.gov/

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: HON. DANIEL WEBSTER OF FLORIDA IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 15, 2014

LENGTH: 322  words

DATELINE: Washington


The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following Speech:

Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, Arnold Palmer Medical Center in Orlando,
Florida has, once again, been recognized as one of the best children's hospitals
in the country by U.S. News & World Report. Arnold Palmer Medical Center,
comprised of Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children and Winnie Palmer Hospital for
Women & Babies, was ranked by U.S. News & World Report in eight different
specialties this year--the most they have ever received.

In 2007, U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in order to
help

[Page: E1158] GPO's PDF

families find the best medical care available for their children. These rankings
include detailed information about the hospitals' performance and their
reputation in the pediatric community.

Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children is a world-class facility dedicated
exclusively to the needs of children. The hospital provides expertise in
pediatric specialties and is known for its excellence in cardiac care,
neurology, orthopedics and sports medicine.

Adjacently, the Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women & Babies is a 285-bed facility
dedicated to the care of women and babies. It is a national leader in neonatal
intensive care and is highly regarded for providing comprehensive healthcare for
women throughout all stages of life.

Both of these institutions are Magnet-designated for their commitment to quality
patient care, safety, research, and service excellence. Arnold Palmer Medical
Center attributes its many accolades to the high level of care its medical team
provides every day. I take comfort in knowing that the women and children of
Central Florida have access to the nation's best care close to home. It is my
distinct pleasure to recognize Arnold Palmer Medical Center for their dedication
to the Central Florida community.

For more information please visit: http://thomas.loc.gov/

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: HON. DANIEL WEBSTER OF FLORIDA IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 15, 2014

LENGTH: 322  words

DATELINE: Washington


The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following Speech:

Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, Arnold Palmer Medical Center in Orlando,
Florida has, once again, been recognized as one of the best children's hospitals
in the country by U.S. News & World Report. Arnold Palmer Medical Center,
comprised of Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children and Winnie Palmer Hospital for
Women & Babies, was ranked by U.S. News & World Report in eight different
specialties this year--the most they have ever received.

In 2007, U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in order to
help

[Page: E1158] GPO's PDF

families find the best medical care available for their children. These rankings
include detailed information about the hospitals' performance and their
reputation in the pediatric community.

Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children is a world-class facility dedicated
exclusively to the needs of children. The hospital provides expertise in
pediatric specialties and is known for its excellence in cardiac care,
neurology, orthopedics and sports medicine.

Adjacently, the Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women & Babies is a 285-bed facility
dedicated to the care of women and babies. It is a national leader in neonatal
intensive care and is highly regarded for providing comprehensive healthcare for
women throughout all stages of life.

Both of these institutions are Magnet-designated for their commitment to quality
patient care, safety, research, and service excellence. Arnold Palmer Medical
Center attributes its many accolades to the high level of care its medical team
provides every day. I take comfort in knowing that the women and children of
Central Florida have access to the nation's best care close to home. It is my
distinct pleasure to recognize Arnold Palmer Medical Center for their dedication
to the Central Florida community.

For more information please visit: http://thomas.loc.gov/

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

BMC earns honors

BYLINE: By Amanda Korman, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 551 words


Saturday December 18, 2010

PITTSFIELD -- Berkshire Medical Center has been ranked as one of the top
hospitals in the state and in the upper echelon nationally in several categories
in a study conducted by a national organization.

The independent study by Health- Grades, a health care ratings group, lists the
Pittsfield hospital in the top 10 percent in the nation in both stroke care and
pulmonary care. BMC earned excellence awards in both categories.

In Massachusetts, BMC was ranked first among hospitals in the treatment of
stroke and critical care services.

HealthGrades rates 5,000 hospitals nationwide, and institutions cannot choose
not to be rated. The 2011 rankings are based on mortality and complication rates
from 2007 to 2009.

"The reason we take a lot of stock in this particular [rating system] is that
everyone has to participate; you don't opt in, you don't opt out," said Diane
Kelly, chief operating officer of Berkshire Health Systems. "To me, this is one
of the more significant benchmarking programs out there."

BMC earned the 2011 Stroke Care Excellence Award for the second year in a row
and the 2011 Pulmonary Care Excellence Award for the third straight year.

In the past two years, BMC has hired four new neurologists who have improved
care for the 225 to 250 patients each year who have a stroke or a stroke
warning, according to Gray Ellrodt, the hospital's chief of medicine.

Critical care services encompass multiple conditions, the most common of which
is sepsis, or overwhelming infection in the bloodstream. BMC earned a 5-star
rating for sepsis treatment.

"The results are obtained by integrating care from the moment the patient
presents and calls EMS through the time the patient is at home, receiving
ongoing care," Ellrodt said.

The hospital has slipped in the rankings in gastrointestinal medical treatment.
Two years ago HealthGrades ranked BMC first in the state in that category. This
year BMC was given a poor, or 1-star, rating gastrointestinal surgeries and
procedures category.

Kelly said that what drove those numbers down was not the surgeries themselves,
but that patients were developing pressure ulcers afterward. BMC has since taken
measures to reduce those complications, she said.

Fairview Hospital in Great Barrington was not rated by HealthGrades due to its
small size, according to Berkshire Health Systems' spokesman Michael Leary.

While North Adams Regional Hospital did not win any state or national accolades,
the hospital maintained average ratings in most categories of treatment and had
5-star ratings in pulmonary treatments six months after hospitalization. The
hospital was rated 1-star in maternity care.

NARH does not specifically use the HealthGrades rankings to evaluate itself,
according to Jennifer Rush, vice president of quality for Northern Berkshire
Healthcare. She said that the raw data used to calculate the rankings comes from
public sources the hospital already takes into account.

HealthGrades issues star ratings for 26 procedures and medical treatments:
5-star ratings indicate a mortality or complication rate below the national
average; 3-star means performance is as expected; and 1-star illustrates a
mortality or complication rate higher than the national average.

To reach Amanda Korman:
 AKorman@berkshireeagle.com
(413) 496-6243

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RN's discuss a patient at Berkshire Medical Center's critical care
unit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

FOR TOP CARE, IT'S HERE If you're sick, city is place to be, thanks to array of
elite medical options

BYLINE: BY HEIDI EVANS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 648 words


Even when it comes to getting sick, there's no place that compares to New York
City.

Three Manhattan hospitals were among the top 17 medical centers of more than
4,700 in the nation - making New York the only city in the country that can make
such a boast, according to the 2014-15 rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News &
World Report.

And in the New York metropolitan area, 50 of the 180 area hospitals were
recognized by U.S. News for excellence in one or more specialties as well.

Ranked No. 1 in the Big Apple - and No. 6 in the nation - was New
York-Presbyterian Hospital, affiliated with Columbia and Cornell and with
locations in Washington Heights and the Upper East Side.

"We are honored to once again be recognized as the top hospital in New York,"
said Dr. Steven Corwin, the hospital's chief executive. "This achievement is
made possible by the amazing team of doctors, nurses, and staff at New
York-Presbyterian who are dedicated to providing the highest-quality and most
compassionate care, every day to every patient. This recognition from U.S. News
reinforces our commitment to New Yorkers and all who seek our care."

The 2014-15 rankings were based on the evaluation of 4,743 hospitals in the U.S.
Factors used to compile the rankings include survival rates, safety procedures,
nurse-to-patient ratios, infection control and reputation of specialists.

Of those, just 144 were nationally ranked in at least one of 16 specialties,
representing just 3% of all the hospitals analyzed.

"New York-area consumers who have complex, challenging medical needs have access
to some of the nation's best hospitals," said Ben Harder, managing editor and
director of health care analysis for U.S. News.

"New York is also unique among metro areas in that it has three of the 17
hospitals on the U.S. News Honor Roll this year - including New
York-Presbyterian, NYU Langone Medical Center and Mount Sinai Medical Center,"
Harder added. "These three institutions have demonstrated a remarkable depth and
breadth of medical expertise."

Nadine Morsi, whose 6-year-old daughter, Kinsey, underwent a successful kidney
transplant at Mount Sinai on May 27, echoed the U.S. News findings.

"I thought the care the nephrology team and transplant surgeons gave us was
absolutely incredible," said Morsi, of Oakland Gardens, Queens. "Every one of
the doctors and staff at Mount Sinai was very thorough and caring toward Kinsey.
They made us feel at ease in such a scary time."

New York- area hospitals also had bragging rights for having at least one of the
nation's top 10 programs in the 16 medical specialties that U.S. News evaluates
- from cardiology and cancer to geriatrics and psychiatry.

For example, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center on Manhattan's East side is
ranked No. 1 in the nation in cancer this year, up from No. 2 last year, and it
ranked No. 4 in gynecology and No. 9 in urology, specialties involved in caring
for some cancer patients.

The Hospital for Special Surgery ranked No. 1 in orthopedics. The Kessler
Institute for Rehabilitation, in West Orange, N.J., was No. 2 nationally in
rehabilitation, and New York Eye and Ear Infirmary ranked 10th in the country in
ophthalmology.

St. Francis Hospital on Long Island ranked No. 9 in the U.S. for cardiology and
heart surgery.

Even two municipal hospitals - Bellevue and Harlem hospitals - were ranked "high
performing" in one specialty: nephrology.

"We are delighted and honored to once again be a top hospital for cancer, but
this recognition is really a reflection of an entire community of exceptional
people - our dedicated staff of almost 13,000 and our patients who have placed
their trust in our care," said Memorial Sloan- Kettering CEO Dr. Craig Thompson.
"We may be No. 1 in the national rankings for this year, but our patients are
No. 1 to us every day."

For the complete 2014-15 rankings, see health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Our city, known for its great skyline, is also home to some of the
world's top hospitals. New York-Presbyterian (far l.), NYU Langone (r. and below
r.), Mount Sinai (below) and Memorial Sloan-Kettering (bottom) offer some of the
best care in the country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Daily News, L.P.

                              410 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

Utah: Hospitals are Least Likely to Kill You, Maybe

LENGTH: 173  words

DATELINE: New York



 Salt Lake City: Illinois Hospital Association, The State of Utah has issued the
following news release:



  Fourteen Chicago-area hospitals were graded as least likely to kill you for
the past four years in a row based on the Leapfrog Group's 2016 list of safest
hospitals, earning the highest grade possible on the annual ranking. Hospitals
which received straight A's on Leapfrog's biannual Hospital Safety Score report
received the highest rankings since 2012, when Leapfrog started the survey. The
Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit graded 2,633 hospitals nationwide on 30 patient
safety measures, including how well they address criteria like patient injuries,
accidents and infections, among others. According to the report, 844 hospitals
earned an A, 658 earned a B, 954 earned a C, 157 earned a D and 20 earned an F.
[Illinois is now ranked 15th in the U.S. in the percentage of hospitals with "A"
grades at 39.8%.]





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

Utah: Hospitals are Least Likely to Kill You, Maybe

LENGTH: 173  words

DATELINE: New York



 Salt Lake City: Illinois Hospital Association, The State of Utah has issued the
following news release:



  Fourteen Chicago-area hospitals were graded as least likely to kill you for
the past four years in a row based on the Leapfrog Group's 2016 list of safest
hospitals, earning the highest grade possible on the annual ranking. Hospitals
which received straight A's on Leapfrog's biannual Hospital Safety Score report
received the highest rankings since 2012, when Leapfrog started the survey. The
Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit graded 2,633 hospitals nationwide on 30 patient
safety measures, including how well they address criteria like patient injuries,
accidents and infections, among others. According to the report, 844 hospitals
earned an A, 658 earned a B, 954 earned a C, 157 earned a D and 20 earned an F.
[Illinois is now ranked 15th in the U.S. in the percentage of hospitals with "A"
grades at 39.8%.]





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                       May 21, 1995, Sunday, ALL EDITIONS

SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORT;
THE GEORGIA 100;
THE BEST OF BUSINESS;
Software company thrives on change in health systems;
Feeding growth: HBO & Co. wants to link the separate facilities of giant medical
networks with its computer programs.

BYLINE: Andy Miller; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 13T

LENGTH: 796 words


Asked about the future of HBO & Co., Charles W. McCall, president and chief
executive, pulls out a diagram.

It has several elements: hospitals and clinics, health insurance, physician
practices, home health care, pharmacies, long-term care - all connected by
arrows.

HBO & Co. wants to supply the arrows.

The Atlanta-based company wants to link the separate facilities of giant medical
systems with its financial and clinical software. Anything from a patient's
medical history to insurance claims information could be called up, at any site,
with a click of a button.

Right now, those networks provide just a small piece of HBOC's revenue. But as
hospitals and other medical providers are forced to get more efficient, McCall
sees it as a big growth area.

That would continue to feed a steep growth curve HBOC has built since 1991.

Last year, HBOC's revenue increased 30 percent and earnings 50 percent. It's No.
2 among providers of information systems and services in health care, bearing
down on No. 1, Pennsylvania-based Shared Medical Systems.

A deal announced Tuesday would bring it much closer. HBOC said it would buy
Charlotte-based Health Systems Group, a unit of First Data, for more than $ 180
million in stock.

Stock 'reasonably valued'

The company's stock price has followed the growth curve, though it has been
accompanied by a high price-to-earnings ratio. Currently it's 50.3, compared
with the S&P 500's 16.2.

"It's reasonably valued," said Stephen Shook of Interstate/Johnson Lane.

HBOC has 2,100 hospital customers. And it holds a large share of the market of
hospitals with 500 or more beds - those expected to survive and lead the rush to
consolidation.

For clients, HBOC's core products can track patient care, along with radiology,
pharmacy and laboratory operations. HBOC's financial systems cover billing and
collections, accounting and budgeting.

Such data help hospitals make decisions on cost and patient care quickly and
accurately.

HBOC also provides staff to run hospitals' data systems, and sells computer
hardware.

But last year's revenue spurt came not just from these core products but from
new products and acquisitions.

HBOC added hospital customers by buying IBAX Healthcare Systems, then added to
its product line by purchasing Serving Software. The latter's software is used
in scheduling.

Earlier this year, HBOC acquired a company specializing in laboratory
information systems, and struck a deal to buy Pegasus Medical, which has
developed a hand-held, computer-based patient records system, primarily for
doctors' offices.

McCall has received high marks for this expansion. In 1991, the year he joined
HBOC from CompuServe, HBOC lost $ 3.4 million on revenue of $ 170.7 million.
McCall oversaw a restructuring in which one division was sold and another two
were combined.

"I think McCall has a very good feel of both computer markets and health care
markets," said Alan Jenks of Jenks Healthcare Business Report, an industry
newsletter. "This is a case where one person has made a big difference."

Revolution

Another plus for the company is the revolution revamping the payment scheme in
health care.

Under the old rules, hospitals felt little pressure to be cost- effective. The
more medical services performed, the more revenue generated.

Now, hospitals and other medical providers are being forced to be more efficient
than ever - to improve quality of care and drive costs down, he said.

For HBOC, change is good. First, technology to help hospitals handle managed
care premiums and payments has great potential, he says.

In addition, many hospitals have consolidated to provide metrowide care systems.
The push is not just to have access to financial data but to connect medical
providers with clinical information.

"Once you link up with all providers, you need to communicate electronic medical
records," said analyst Steven Halper of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.

Thus, HBOC's health-network diagram is important to the company's future, Halper
added.

But change can be a two-edged sword, McCall admits.

"The one thing that's good - change - is something you need to watch, too," he
said. "There's a certain amount of risk," including possible problems with new
services, or being late to market with a product.

Just as change remains an underlying theme at HBOC, McCall admits to some talk
of switching the company's name. Many confuse it with the cable TV channel.

McCall chuckles about it but adds that HBOC has good name recognition where it
counts: among its customers.

"We've almost come to the conclusion that we will try to manage the confusion
over the name," he said, "because of the strength it means in our marketplace."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Part of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution annual special report called
"The Georgia 100: The Best of Business." This story features HBO & Co., a health
care software and information systems company, ranked number 3 among Georgia's
Top 100 businesses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: HBO & Co.'s chief executive Charles W. McCall / PHIL SKINNER /
Staff
Chart: HBO & CO. - Number 3
Headquarters: Atlanta
Business: Health care software, information systems
Chief executive officer: Charles W. McCall
Employees: 2,383
Return on equity: 39.8 percent
Industry average return on equity: 31.2 percent
Line graph: End-of month stock prices (from January 1993 through April
1995) Line graph: Revenue annually in millions from 1992 through 1994
Line graph: Net income annually in millions from 1992 through 1994
Line graph: Net income per share annually from 1992 through 1994
/ Mark Giles / staff

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution

                              413 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Tweed Daily News (New South Wales)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday

Baby-friendly award

BYLINE:  Ellisha Puglia

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 263  words



HIGHLIGHT: John Flynn rated the third-best maternity hospital


AS thousands of first-time mothers celebrate Mother's Day tomorrow, John Flynn
Private Hospital has been highly-rated in a maternity survey.

Medibank Private has released results of a national survey into maternity
hospital experiences with John Flynn, in Tugun, ranking third in Australia.

Group general manager provider relations Cindy Shay said Medibank was pleased
with the performance of private hospitals.

"Giving birth is an exciting yet challenging event for any family, and the
overall experience can be heavily influenced by what happens at the hospital,"
she said.

"We are very pleased to announce that the highest ranked maternity hospital in
Australia, as rated by Medibank members, was the Sunshine Coast Private Hospital
in Queensland.

They were followed by Cabrini Hospital in Victoria, and John Flynn Gold Coast
Private Hospital in Queensland."

John Flynn chief executive officer Greg Jenke said the hospital was delighted
about the high ranking.

"We are really thrilled at this achievement and it is great for our staff and
doctors to receive this feedback independently and in the lead-up to Mother's
Day," Mr Jenke said.

"John Flynn Private Hospital delivers over 800 babies per year and was the first
accredited baby-friendly hospital on the Gold Coast ensuring the best possible
support is provided for parents to give babies the best start in life.

"We have a terrific maternity team, who work very hard to ensure our patients
have an excellent experience and they really deserve this accolade."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DDN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Thomasville Times-Enterprise (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          December 16, 2015 Wednesday

Archbold holds spot in Georgia Trend rankings

BYLINE: Thomasville Times-Enterprise, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words


Dec. 16--For the fifth consecutive year, Georgia Trend magazine has named
Archbold Memorial Hospital a "Top Georgia Hospital." This year, Archbold ranks
third in the large hospital category (hospitals in Georgia with more than 250
beds), and is the highest ranked large hospital in South Georgia.

The information used to compile the rankings was based on publicly reported data
acquired in July 2015 from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS), which
administers the nation's Medicare and Medicaid .

The data analyzed specifically relates to quality of care, patient satisfaction,
mortality, readmission statistics and data on hospital acquired infections and
conditions.

"Patient safety is a tremendous part of the culture at Archbold," said Amy
Griffin, vice president of Patient Care at Archbold. "Our staff is committed to
constantly looking for new ways to improve the care we provide our patients. And
in addition, we're all dedicated to ensuring every patient receives the right
care at the right time, every time at Archbold."

In addition to being named a Georgia Trend Top Hospital in 2015, Archbold
Memorial Hospital also recently earned an "A" for patient safety from Leapfrog
Group, an independent nonprofit organization that focuses on driving quality,
safety, and transparency in the U.S. health system.

"Our community can be confident that they are in the very best hands when
receiving care at Archbold," said Perry Mustian, Archbold president and CEO.
"I'm very proud of our team and the emphasis they place on patient safety. It's
rewarding for our staff to be recognized for their dedication to provide the
best care possible to our patients, and it's also very rewarding to again be
named a top hospital in the state."

___ (c)2015 Thomasville Times-Enterprise (Thomasville, Ga.) Visit Thomasville
Times-Enterprise (Thomasville, Ga.) at www.timesenterprise.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151216-TZ-Archbold-holds-spot-in-Georgia-Trend-rankings-1216-20151216

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TZ


                  Copyright 2015 Thomasville Times-Enterprise

                              415 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

SECTION: Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 285 words


Magazine ranks New Hanover Regional among best hospitals in the country

Wilmington | New Hanover Regional Medical Center has received national
recognition in U.S. News & World Report's annual rankings of best hospitals.

NHRMC was recognized among the best hospitals in North Carolina and the Coastal
Plain area, sharing the No. 15 spot with Duke Raleigh Hospital in Raleigh,
Gaston Memorial Hospital in Gastonia, Presbyterian Hospital-Matthews in Matthews
and Southeastern Regional Medical Center in Lumberton.

NHRMC was also recognized as high-performing in cardiology and heart surgery,
gastroenterology, orthopedics and pulmonology.

The rankings showcase approximately 720 of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals,
and judge medical centers on their competence in situations in which patients
are especially at risk because of age, physical condition, infirmities, or the
challenging nature of the surgery or other care they need.

- Jim Ware

Holiday operations  yield DWI arrests

Southeastern N.C. | Law enforcement officers charged 151 people with driving
while impaired in the area's three counties during a "Booze It & Lose It"
campaign dubbed "Operation Firecracker" from June 29 to July 9.

According to a news release from the N.C. Department of Transportation, New
Hanover County had 14 checkpoints, 74 DWI charges and 1,396 total traffic and
criminal violations.

In Brunswick County, there were 14 checkpoints, 54 DWI charges and 724 total
traffic and criminal violations.

In Pender County, there were six checkpoints, 23 DWI charges and 545 total
traffic and criminal violations.

Statewide, officers conducted 5,974 sobriety checkpoints and dedicated patrols.
They resulted in 1,937 DWI charges.

- Julian March

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                            February 5, 2016 Friday

Matariya doctors threaten to submit mass resignations

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 388  words


CAIRO, Feb 5 (Aswat Masriya) - Doctors at Matariya Teaching Hospitaldecided
Friday to submit their resignation to the Minister of Health if alleged police
assault on doctors is not investigated.

The Matariya doctors said they will resume work at the reception and emergency
departments of the hospital despite not having had their "rights" given back to
them, according to a statement published on Friday on the Egyptian Medical
Syndicate wesbsite.

The doctors at the Matariya hospital have held a week-long strike after low-
ranking policemen reportedly assaulted two doctors at the hospital in January.

A video published by Egyptian news portal Mobtada late January featured a doctor
who works at the Hospital,detailing the purported assault against him by low-
ranking policemen as he attempted to provide one of them with healthcare.

The video featured doctor Ahmed Abdallah recounting the details of how he was
"dragged" and "handcuffed", after he told a low ranking policeman that hiswound
was"superficial" and would likely not require stitches.

As tensions escalated, more low-ranking policemen arrived at the hospital and
Abdallah was thrown into a vehicle, by which he and a colleague were taken to
the police station.

The Matariya prosecution ordered the release of the policemen after they
reconciled with the two doctors but a syndicate official said the doctors waived
the complaint after they were subjected to "severe pressures" inside the
Matariya police station. A police official told Aswat Masriya that there were no
"pressures or threats".

Last Saturday, the Egyptian Doctors' Syndicate announced the "forced closure" of
theMatariya Teaching Hospital, which will remain shut until there are clear
arrest warrants for the policemen and they are referred to trial.

The syndicate called on the interior minister to suspend the low-ranking
policemen believed to be involved in the purported assault on two doctor,
statingthat if no legal action is taken against the policemen, "all options to
escalate" are on the table. This included holding a partial strike "in order to
preserve the dignity of the masses of doctors."

An emergency general assembly meeting of the syndicate is due to be held on Feb.
12, to which the health minister and senior ministry officials will be invited.

All rights reserved 2016 Aswat Masriya

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2016 Aswat Masriya
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 16, 2016 Saturday

Packing a healthy punch

BYLINE: Austin Ramsey, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 949 words


July 16--The region most served by hospitals in and around Owensboro has been
identified as one of the healthiest in the state by a foundation aimed at
promoting high-performance health.

The Commonwealth Fund, based in New York, identified the Owensboro hospital
referral region as a top performer in the Midwest. Still, statewide health
indicators remain below the national average, and the Owensboro region dropped
several rankings since the last Commonwealth Fund scorecard was released in
2011.

Hospital referral regions represent regional health care markets with at least
on hospital in which complex surgeries are performed. Locally, that's Owensboro
Health Regional Hospital, which is the apex of of the Owensboro Health nonprofit
system.

Owensboro is joined by four other hospital regions with major centers in
Kentucky. It is by far the smallest; only OHRH in Owensboro and Ohio County
Hospital in Hartford serve the region. The latter, much smaller, 25-bed facility
is too small to register on Dartmouth's registry of hospital care and does not
qualify as a complex surgery center.

The Commonwealth Fund rankings are divided into four dimensions: access,
prevention and treatment, health lives and avoidable trips to the hospital
(including hospital costs). Owensboro improved its ranking in only access and
affordability.

The small region, however, posts big numbers when compared to those in a more
than 300-mile radius. It ranks 173rd of 306 in the nation and maintains the only
3 of 5 quintile ranking.

OH officials say the region's dominance is at least partly an indication of its
mission to change the landscape of health care locally. OH has identified access
to care as a strategic priority. It is undertaking major outreach operations in
neighboring cities and counties such as three new multimillion-dollar outpatient
medical facilities in Henderson, Madisonville and Powderly set to open next
year.

Even though OHRH is the only hospital in its region equipped to handle complex
medical procedures, CEO Greg Strahan, however, said he doesn't believe there is
a lack of competition in the area. Patients, he said, can choose care in larger
communities such as Evansville or Louisville. He said he believes people realize
that there is quality service offered locally. Third-party ratings agencies have
noted, though, that the OH network captures 92 percent of the Daviess County
market. That's not an indication of a saturated market, however, Strahan urged.

Improvement in both the region's and state's access to care has also been
attributed to a sharp decline in the number of uninsured Kentuckians under the
2014 Medicaid expansion and creation of the state health insurance marketplace.
Strahan said he believes state and federal policies like that have created a new
population of patients who are empowered to take control of their health in ways
they never have before.

"Any time you provide access to care through insurance, you make it more
affordable for people to care for themselves," he said. "They realize that they,
too, are entitled to come to a doctor and be covered."

Owensboro's uninsured adults dropped 9 percentage points from 2011, down to 10
percent in 2014.

Owensboro fell in other ranking dimensions such as prevention and treatment,
hospital visits and healthy lives, but not as much as other regions including
Lexington, Louisville and Nashville, which serves parts of Kentucky. The
Lexington region, which encompasses all of eastern Kentucky, has some of the
poorest health rankings in the nation.

Some of Owensboro's worst declines were in breast cancer deaths and infant
mortality.

OH Chief Medical Officer Michael Scherm said many of the medical needs in the
community are linked. Access, while improved, can go a long way toward stopping
fast-moving breast and colorectal cancers. Much of the data collected in the
nationwide report released this week comes from 2014, but Scherm said OH has
been working diligently before and ever since at proving even more screening
opportunities both at its largest hospital in Owensboro and at clinics and
health centers region-wide.

Health care, he said, is about creating an awareness and giving people control
of their needs.

"We have to give people more access to early care and screenings," he said.
"We're pushing for things like primary care services, because it's what stops
these diseases and complications in their tracks."

Regular care, he added, makes for longer, healthier lives.

Though small, that's precisely why officials at Ohio County Hospital say their
facility is in demand for residents in cities such as Hartford, Beaver Dam and
Fordsville.

"Our mission is to provide as many health care services at a local level as we
can," said Cecelia Robinson, supervisor of Community Relations. "We have to
bring medical services to the people."

The hospital's outreach mission is evidenced by its roles in the Green River
Area Health Council and the Ohio County Health Coalition, she said.

The interconnectivity of health demands is also present in unhealthy habits like
smoking, said Debbie Fillman, Green River District Health Department public
health director. She said smoking is part of the culture of western Kentucky.
Smoking cessation efforts affect the number of cancer patients, low birth
weights and chronic health conditions.

"We might be the best in the state," she said, "but we're the best in an
unhealthy state. We have a lot of work to do."

Austin Ramsey, 270-691-7302, aramsey@messenger-inquirer.com, Twitter:
@austinrramsey

___ (c)2016 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160716-OW-Packing-a-healthy-punch-0716-20160716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2016 Messenger-Inquirer

                              418 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                              April 5, 2013 Friday

Terrorism ranking questioned

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 264 words


A ranking by the US Federal Bureau of Investigation that placed Thailand as the
No 1 most likely country in Asia and fifth in the world to be hit by a terrorist
attack was the result of "a misunderstanding". A military attache with the US
Embassy has apologised over the issue, Army commander General Prayuth Chan-ocha
said yesterday.

The Army chief said he sent word to an FBI-hosted meeting on the issue in
Brunei, seeking clarification about the ranking. A military staffer from the US
Embassy in Thailand who was present at the session explained that it was "a
misunderstanding" and apologised. [2A]

Rural hospitals at a loss

The mass resignation of doctors and specialists to protest the new
pay-for-performance (P4P) scheme is causing chaos in many rural hospitals.
According to the P4P scheme, a doctor's salary and additional allowance are
calculated according to the number of patients they see. Since the Public Health
Ministry initiated its plan to implement the P4P scheme on April 1, up to 148
doctors have quit rural hospitals. Some have moved to state hospitals in town,
private hospitals or beauty clinics. [3A]

Backing for solar-driven power

Former energy minister Piyasavasti Amranand has come out in support of using
solar power as an alternative to natural gas in generating electricity. He said
the cost of solar-power production was trending down and was now close to the
cost of electricity generation by the country's large independent power plants,
especially those using liquefied natural gas (LNG), imports of which are rising
for use in generating electricity. [1B]

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 502 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

TGH, Moffitt In Top 50

Tampa General Hospital is among the nation's top 50 hospitals in seven medical
specialties, according to rankings released by U.S. News & World Report.

The local hospital earned the distinction in the fields of ear, nose and throat
(ranking 37); endocrinology (39); gynecology (27); heart and heart surgery (42);
kidney disorders (34); orthopedics (25); and urology (27).

It was the first time Tampa General earned top 50 recognition in endocrinology
and heart and heart surgery. It is a repeat honor in the other categories.

Two other Tampa Bay area hospitals earned top 50 honors in the magazine's annual
ranking: H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, which ranked 16th in
the cancer specialty; and Sarasota Memorial Health Care System, which ranked
43rd in geriatrics.

Young Pros Dislike Tampa

Tampa, Miami and Las Vegas ranked among the worst cities for young
professionals. At least that's the consensus of an annual survey by Forbes.com.

The mortgage crisis and weak economy have made those cities, which depend
heavily on tourism and consumer spending, unattractive for college graduates
looking for career advancement.

The best cities for young professionals, says the survey: San Francisco,
Minneapolis, Houston and Boston.

Hotel Room Demand Drops

Hillsborough County's hotel room demand fell 6 percent, to 364,920 rooms, in May
compared with May 2007, Smith Travel Research of Hendersonville, Tenn.,
reported. Revenue declined 2.3 percent, to $36.7 million, in May, despite a 3.9
percent increase in the average daily room rate to $100.51, compared with a year
ago.

NATION

Oil Speculators Decried

Airlines pressed their case against oil speculators Friday, urging Congress to
crack down on investors in the commodities markets after gathering earlier in
the week in Washington.

The Stop Oil Speculation Now coalition, a lobbying group of a dozen major
airlines run by the Air Transport Association, pushed for new regulations
governing oil futures trade.

GE's Profit Falls 6 Percent

General Electric Co. said Friday that profit fell 6 percent in the second
quarter, and it has agreed to sell its Japanese consumer finance business for
$5.4 billion.

Fairfield, Conn.-based GE earned $5.07 billion, or 51 cents per share, compared
with a year-earlier profit of $5.38 billion, or 52 cents per share. Revenue rose
to $46.89 billion from $42.38 billion a year earlier.

Shares closed Friday at $27.66, up 2 cents.

ENERGY

Oil Soars to All-Time High

Light, sweet crude for August delivery soared to an all-time high of $147.27 a
barrel before settling at $145.08, up $3.43. That's slightly below last
Thursday's settlement record of $145.29 a barrel. The average U.S. retail price
for gasoline was at $4.096 a gallon, down slightly from the record $4.108 a
gallon reached Monday, according to the AAA auto club and the Oil Price
Information Service.

A staff and wire report

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company

                              420 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     February 20, 1999, Saturday, Edition 1

ONTARIO CANCER AGENCY
 LOOKS TO U.S. RANKINGS

BYLINE: Lisa Priest

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words


Guide lists clinics where Canadians sent



 STAFF REPORTER

 Are hospital rankings of any real value?
 Cancer Care Ontario certainly thinks so.
 The agency, which oversees cancer treatment for the Ontario
 government, is perusing Best Hospitals - a book published by U.S.
 News And World Report magazine - as they try to figure out where
 to send Ontario cancer patients for radiation treatment south of
 the border.
 ''Certainly that's part of it, but that's not all of it,'' says
 Dr. Tom McGowan, the agency's co-ordinator of radiation
 treatment.
 McGowan says officials have done site visits, and will be looking
 at hospital accreditation, in addition to checking Best
 Hospitals.
 The book ranks hospitals by reputation, death rate, technology
 and nurse-to-bed ratio, among other criteria.
 Ontario's first hospital report card is scheduled to be published
 by the Ontario Hospital Association this fall.
 Three American hospitals being considered by Ontario are on the
 1998 Best Hospitals list of top cancer hospitals: Buffalo-based
 Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo is ranked No. 11[semi] the
 Cleveland Clinic is No. 18[semi] and Detroit-based Henry Ford Hospital
 is No. 30.
 A fourth hospital under consideration - the Detroit-based Barbara
 Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute, which is part of the Harper
 Hospital - didn't make the list.
 Asked why, Yvette Monet, the institute's public information
 co-ordinator, replied:
 ''You've asked a question that could start wars.''
 An escalating backlog in patients waiting for radiation therapy
 has forced the provincial government to take the unprecedented
 step of sending Ontario cancer patients to the U.S. for
 treatment.
 Prime candidates for south-of-the-border care include women with
 breast cancer in the early stages who have recovered from surgery
 and need radiation to help prevent a recurrence.
 Others are men with prostate cancer who had a biopsy and medical
 therapy, but need radiation to slow the disease.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.

                              421 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 31, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Geisinger Medical Center one of 100 Hospitals, Health Systems with Great
Oncology Programs

LENGTH: 373  words


July 31 -- Pennsylvania-based Geisinger issued the following news release:


Geisinger Medical Center (GMC) has been named one of the "100 Hospitals and
Health Systems with Great Oncology Programs" by Becker's Hospital Review.
According to Becker's, this year's honorees are "leading the way in terms of
quality patient care, cancer outcomes and research."



The Becker's Hospital Review editorial team selected hospitals for inclusion
based on rankings and awards they have received from a variety of reputable
sources. The following awards were considered as part of the criteria for
inclusion on the list: U.S. News & World Report cancer rankings, Truven Health
Analytics, CareChex cancer care rankings, National Cancer Institute
designations, the American College of Surgeons Commission on Cancer
accreditations, American Nurses Credentialing Center designations and awards and
Blue Distinction Center recognition from the BlueCross BlueShield Association.

"Earning a spot on Becker's '100 Hospitals with Great Oncology Programs' is as
affirming a recognition of quality cancer care as any other our facility could
have received," said James Wade (at right), M.D., chairman, Geisinger Cancer
Institute. "It's our unique approach to cancer care that treats each patient as
an individual case with customized treatments that we feel sets us apart and
distinguishes our center as a premier destination for cancer care."

Joining GMC on the list of "100 Hospitals with Great Oncology Programs" were
esteemed medical centers such as the Cleveland Clinic, Ohio; Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minn.; Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York City; John
Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center, Baltimore; and Yale-New Haven Hospital, Conn. GMC
was one of just seven Pennsylvania hospitals to make the list and the only one
not located in Philadelphia or Pittsburgh.

Earlier this month, GMC was listed among Becker's list of "100 Great Hospitals"
when it was also ranked 74th nationally in the National Patient Engagement
Rankings. Geisinger also recently partnered with German tumor repository and bio
bank Indivumend to utilize Geisinger samples to further cancer research and
develop new individualized treatments for certain types of cancer.

Source: Geisinger

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW Hospital ranked in top 50 in seven specialties by magazine

BYLINE: By BILL NOVAK The Capital Times bnovak@madison.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 246 words


.University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics is ranked among the nation's best
hospitals in seven different specialities, according to the 2010 "America's Best
Hospitals" report from U.S. News and World Report.

The report released on Thursday ranked U.S. hospitals in 16 specialties.

UW Hospital has been ranked every year since 1993.

"As every member of our staff here knows, this hospital puts patient safety and
the quality of care at the center of our efforts," Donna Katen-Bahensky,
president and CEO of UW Hospital and Clinics, said in a news release from the UW
news service.

"I am happy to acknowledge these strong rankings and give credit to outstanding
physicans and staff," Katen-Bahensky said.

The publication ranks the top 50 hospitals in 16 specialties, after reviewing
4,852 hospitals. Only 152 of the hospitals scored high enough to be ranked in
any specialty.

The best ranking for UW Hospital was in kidney disorders at No. 28 out of 1,600
facilities analyzed.

UW Hospital was ranked No. 30 out of 984 facilities in the cancer category; No.
36 out of 1,500 in geriatrics; No. 39 out of 1,400 in ear, nose and throat; No.
40 out of 1,500 in urology; No. 43 out of 1,600 in orthopedics and No. 44 out of
1,600 in pulmonology.

The only other hospital in Wisconsin ranked in the top 50 is Froedtert Hospital
in Milwaukee, ranked No. 34 in gastroenterology, the UW news release said.

Posted in Health_med_fit, University on Thursday, July 15, 2010 10:15 am
Updated: 10:22 am.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Chronicle (Centralia, Washington)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday

EDITORIAL: Providence Centralia Hospital Deserving of High Marks

BYLINE: The Chronicle, Centralia, Wash.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 550 words


Jun. 18--Sometimes we take for granted aspects of our community that over time
we become so familiar with, we don't recognize their quality.

Such is the case of Providence Centralia Hospital. Results from a recent survey
of Medicare and Medicaid patients show out of seven hospitals in the Western
Washington region (Providence St. Peter Hospital in Olympia, Providence
Centralia Hospital, Good Samaritan Hospital in Puyallup, Capital Medical Center
in Olympia, Tacoma General, St. Joseph Hospital in Tacoma, and St. John in
Longview), Providence Centralia Hospital overall has the highest positive
rankings.

The national standardized test is called the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Health Care Providers and Systems. This data comes from surveys of patients
taken between July 2007 and June 2008.

Yet when patients were asked if they would recommend Providence Centralia
Hospital to family and friends, Providence Centralia Hospital came in third out
of the seven (although 68 percent said they would forward such a
recommendation).

Out of the 10 question categories, Providence Centralia Hospital came in first
three times, second five times and third two times. Overall it had the highest
cumulative rankings out of all the hospitals. The top rankings were in the
categories of: "How often did nurses communicate well with patients," "How often
did patients receive help quickly from hospital staff," and "How often did staff
explain about medicines before giving them to patients."

When compared to the Washington state and United States averages, Providence
Centralia Hospital ranks higher in eight of the 10 categories.

In light of those statistics, why doesn't Providence Centralia Hospital rank
first or second in patient recommendations?

"We tend to rank lower because we're a smaller facility and people believe they
need to go to a larger hospital, and sometimes that's the case," said Jeanell
Rasmussen, vice president and chief nursing officer at Providence Centralia
Hospital.

We've known people to complain about our local hospital. We've also heard
glowing reports of great health care.

We rely, however, more on the hospital's track record and strong data such as
this recent study, over anecdotal material.

The track record: in 2007, Providence Centralia Hospital offered $5 million in
free and discounted medical care for the needy, and another $7 million in
covering unfunded parts of government-sponsored medical care. In the mid-1990s
they spent $15 million on an expansion of the hospital. Three years ago they
completed an emergency department expansion and added a new professional center.
Last year they added a new MRI suite. And late last year the hospital broke
ground on its $6 million, 17,000-square-foot cancer center.

It all adds up to a professional, caring and modern health care facility that
serves this community well. Just ask the patients that go there.

To see more of The Chronicle or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.chronline.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Chronicle, Centralia, Wash.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090618-1CE-EDITORIAL-Providence-Centralia-Hospital
-Deserving-of-High-Marks-0618

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CE


                                 Copyright 2009

                              424 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                    January 27, 2005 Thursday, York Edition

Goodall Hospital surgeons highly ranked by patients

SECTION: YOUR NEIGHBORS; News Briefs; Pg. E5

LENGTH: 216 words

DATELINE: SANFORD


In its most recent independent survey of patient satisfaction, Goodall
Hospital's surgeons ranked in the top 1 percent of all surgeons both nationwide
in the American Hospital Association's Region I.

The survey, conducted by Press Ganey Associates Inc., rates the satisfaction of
patients who have been treated at Goodall Hospital. It ranks the organization on
several categories, including overall ranking, nursing, facility, registration
and surgeons.

Along with the surgeons' high rating, Goodall's overall percentile ranking was
92, meaning the hospital rated better than 92 percent of the more than 600
hospitals surveyed nationwide.

In the AHA Region I ranking, Goodall was in the 91st percentile.

Most of Goodall's scores were above the 80th percentile.

"We are extremely proud of our surgeons and pleased that they are meeting and
exceeding the expectations of our patients," said Dolores "Dee" Hopper, vice
president of Patient Care. "Our staff's overall performance was outstanding.
There is always room for improvement, and we are constantly looking for ways to
better our performance."

Press Ganey Associates Inc., is an independent research firm specializing in
patient satisfaction. In this last report, 647 hospitals and health care
facilities were in the database.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2005 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.

                              425 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 19, 2013 Friday

BRIEF: PVH and MCR rank among Colorado's best hospitals

BYLINE: Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


July 19--PVH and MCR rank among Colo.'s best hospitals

northern Colorado

Two northern Colorado hospitals ­-- Poudre Valley Hospital in Fort Collins and
Medical Center of the Rockies in Loveland -- rank among the top 10 hospitals in
Colorado, according to a recent report by U.S. News and World Report.

The rankings of more than 5,000 hospitals are largely based on objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data and nurse staffing levels. The
annual ranking is in its 24th year. Of Colorado's 100 hospitals, PVH was ranked
fourth best and MCR seventh.

Hospitals were given high performing ratings for certain specialties. PVH was
ranked as high performing in diabetes and endocrinology, ear, nose and throat,
geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

Staff reports

MCR was ranked high performing for gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics,
nephrology, orthopedics and urology.

Both PVH and MCR are part of University of Colorado Health, which has five
hospitals and clinics throughout Colorado. The University of Colorado Hospital,
also part of UCHealth, was ranked the top hospital in the state by "U.S. News
and World Report."

North Colorado Medical Center in Greeley was not ranked.

___ (c)2013 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130719-GY-BRF-PVH-and-MCR-rank-among-Colorado-s-best-hospitals
-0719-20130719

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2013 Greeley Tribune

                              426 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 12, 2012 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Siteman Cancer Center: U.S. News & World Report Names Siteman Among Top 10 in
Cancer Care

LENGTH: 421  words


New Delhi, Sept. 12 -- The Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital and
Washington University School of Medicine has been ranked a top 10 cancer center
nationally by U.S. News & World Report.



The recognition is part of the overall ranking of Barnes-Jewish Hospital and
Washington University, which are No. 6 on the news magazine's 2012 "Best
Hospitals" list, released today.

"As a national leader in cancer, Siteman offers patients the very best in
clinical care, and we are proud of the unique and innovative research
contributions by our world-class faculty," says Timothy Eberlein, MD, Spencer T.
and Ann W. Olin Distinguished Professor at Washington University and director of
Siteman. "We are honored for this recognition of our commitment to the patients
we serve."

The top 10 listing comes only eight years after the National Cancer Institute
(NCI) designated Siteman as a Comprehensive Cancer Center, the highest federal
designation for U.S. cancer centers. In Missouri, Siteman is the only
NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center and the only cancer center to make
the U.S. News & World Report top 10 list. Siteman jumped six spots, from No. 16
last year. Barnes-Jewish is the only Missouri hospital to make the top 10 list.
The institution moved up five places since last year.

For the 20th straight year, Barnes-Jewish earned honors as part of the U.S. News
& World Report Honor Roll, this year ranking sixth nationally overall and in the
top 15 in 15 of 16 possible specialties. Fewer than 150 of the nation's nearly
5,000 hospitals performed well enough to rank in even one of 16 specialties such
as cancer.

The methodology U.S. News & World Report uses to rank 12 of 16 specialties is
based on a mathematical model combining reputation, mortality rate, patient
safety and care-related factors such as nursing and patient services. This year,
the magazine changed its methodology, emphasizing measures with a direct link to
the quality of patient care compared to more subjective reputation scores. The
change to reputation data, coupled with the other methodology improvements made
this year, contributed to some significant shifts in the rankings.

Hospitals in four remaining specialties - ophthalmology, psychiatry,
rehabilitation and rheumatology - are ranked solely based on their reputation
among specialists.

The 2012 "Best Hospitals" list is online at www.usnews.com/besthospitals.
Rankings will also appear in U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals 2013
guidebook, available on newsstands in mid-August.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Mount Sinai Ranked as One of the Most Social-Media Friendly Hospitals in the
United States in 2013 by Healthcare Administration Advocate Website

LENGTH: 326  words


New Delhi, Sept. 11 -- The Mount Sinai Medical Center is ranked #4 out of the 50
Most Social Media Friendly Hospitals in the United States. It was also the only
hospital in the New York City metropolitan area to rank in the top 15.



The rankings, from MHADegree.org, an online resource for students interested in
earning their master's degree in health administration, are available online at
http://mhadegree.org/top-50-most-social-media-friendly-hospitals-2013/.

"We are very excited about this high ranking," said Leonard Achan, RN, MA, ANP,
Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer, The Mount Sinai Medical
Center. "Mount Sinai's social media strategy adopted two years ago with a staff
of one is quickly leading the market and is also is gaining favorable attention
on the national stage."

In creating the rankings, staff at MHADegree.org gathered social media stats for
all of the hospitals listed as "Nationally Ranked" for at least one adult
specialty by U.S. News & World Report and used the number of followers and the
amount of activity on each platform to calculate a score. The highest possible
score was 100, with 21 points for Facebook, 17 for Twitter, 18 for YouTube, 18
for LinkedIn, 8 for Pinterest 12 for Google Plus, and 6 for Flickr.

Mount Sinai's overall score was 88 points with 18.5 points for Facebook, 15.6
points for Twitter, 15.3 points for YouTube, 16.7 points for LinkedIn, the
highest possible score of 12 points for Google Plus, 7.1 points for Pinterest,
and 2.8 points for Flickr.

"Several years ago, we recognized the importance of social media as a tool for
connecting with our patient population and employees," said Kenneth L. Davis,
MD, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai Medical Center. "As
a result, our social media team has implemented campaigns on multiple platforms,
and we have been thrilled with the ability to connect in real time with members
of our local and global communities."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

Magazine recognizes Regional Hospital of Scranton as area's top medical facility

BYLINE: James Haggerty, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


July 20--A news magazine's ranking of the nation's leading hospitals identifies
Regional Hospital of Scranton as the area's top medical facility.

U.S. News & World Report identified Scranton Regional as the leading hospital in
the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre/Hazleton metro area. The magazine cited the hospital's
high score in patient-safety metrics, reported the facility performed well in
gastroenterology procedures and rated above-average in some patient-satisfaction
categories.

Scranton Regional succeeded Mercy Hospital in May, when Community Health Systems
Inc., a Nashville-area for-profit corporation, completed a $150 million
acquisition that also included Tyler Memorial Hospital in Tunkhannock and
Special Care Hospital in Nanticoke.

"Everyone here at Regional Hospital of Scranton is delighted with this
recognition and we welcome the validation of the care we provide to our
community every day," said hospital spokeswoman Gladys Bernet.

A University of Scranton health administration professor said Scranton Regional
deserves credit for the recognition, but cautioned against relying too heavily
on any singular report or ranking.

"We should not put all of our eggs in one quality-rating basket, so to speak,"
said Peter Olden, director of the university's graduate program in health
administration. "We ought to not get too focused on any one particular
measurement or report and we ought to look at a wide variety of information and
reports."

Contact the writer: jhaggerty@timesshamrock.com

To see more of The Times-Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://thetimes-tribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Times-Tribune, Scranton,
Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110720-YT-Magazine-recognizes-Regional-Hospital
-of-Scranton-as-area-s-top-medical-facility-0720-20110720

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                        Copyright 2011 The Times-Tribune

                              429 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 22, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Wolters Kluwer Clinical Drug Information Used by More Than 96% of Honor Roll
Hospitals in Latest US News, World Report Rankings

LENGTH: 349  words


Sept. 22 -- Netherlands-based Wolters Kluwer Health issued the following news
release:

Wolters Kluwer Health, a leading global provider of information for healthcare
professionals and students, announced today that its Clinical Drug Information
solutions are currently used by more than 96% of hospitals achieving Honor Roll
status in U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals 2014-2015 and Best
Children's Hospital's 2014-2015 rankings.

The 2014-15 hospital rankings evaluated surveys of more than 9,500 physicians
across nearly 5,000 medical centers in the U.S. High scores within at least six
of the 16 specialties evaluated earned 17 hospitals a place on the Honor Roll.
Death rates, patient safety and hospital reputation were a few of the many
factors considered.

In the category of children's hospitals, evaluations were conducted across 10
specialties, and high scores in three or more specialties earned Honor Roll
Status. Specifically, Lexicomp-a comprehensive drug reference solution offered
through Wolters Kluwer Clinical Drug Information-is currently used by 19 of the
20 top-ranked pediatric hospitals for neonatology.

Wolters Kluwer Clinical Drug Information unites the expertise of more than 300
professionals to provide consistent drug information across its leading
solutions Lexicomp, Medi-Span and Facts & Comparisons.

Through the provision of innovative and reliable resources in multiple formats,
these solutions help reduce errors, improve patient safety, lower system-wide
costs and increase workflow efficiency throughout the continuum of care.

"In today's performance-driven healthcare climate, hospitals must arm clinicians
with the best clinical decision support tools available to drive higher quality
care delivery and improved outcomes," said Steven Kerscher, Vice President &
General Manager, Clinical Drug Information, Wolters Kluwer Health, Clinical
Solutions.

"We are pleased to be a trusted source of information by the top hospitals in
the U.S. and will continue to build upon our track record of innovation and
excellence in the market."

Source: Wolters Kluwer Health

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                      July 22, 1997, Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Hospitals rated; Emory not listed because of glitch

BYLINE: Amanda Husted; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 03C

LENGTH: 377 words


An annual magazine report on the nation's best research hospitals was published
Monday, with no major surprises, except one.

Ranked No. 1 for the seventh straight year by U.S. News & World Report is Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. Not ranked is Emory University Hospital, but it
hasn't suddenly fallen in status.

The company hired by the magazine to rank the hospitals excluded Emory from
consideration because it didn't fill out an American Hospitals Association
survey, one of the sources of data for the list.

"Emory failed to submit data for the major categories in our survey; it's an
unfortunate clerical error," said magazine spokesman Bruce Anka.

So Emory, which in previous years was ranked high in a number of specialities,
including sixth in cardiology, is listed this year only in ophthalmology.
Emory's ophthalmology department is 16th, a ranking based on reputation and a
survey of physicians.

Only one other Georgia hospital, Memorial Medical Center in Savannah, is listed
in the magazine ---39th in the speciality of orthopedics. Medical College of
Georgia, which made the magazine's list in previous years in the specialities of
endocrinology and neurology, dropped from the list last year and didn't reappear
in the current rankings.

The magazine itself says the rankings, in fields ranging from AIDS to
geriatrics, are not an indication of a hospital's worthiness, but a tool for
consumers shopping for health care.

Among Southern research hospitals, Duke University Medical Center at Durham,
N.C., was fourth on the magazine's list of 16 "honor roll" hospitals, behind
Johns Hopkins, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and Massachusetts General in
Boston.

Several other Southern hospitals besides Duke ranked in the top 20 in individual
specialities, but didn't make the honor roll. They include the University of
Alabama at Birmingham, ninth in AIDS, 12th in cardiology, seventh in
rheumatology, 20th in geriatrics and 19th in pulmonary diseases; the University
of Virginia Health Sciences Center at Charlottesville, 17th in cancer, 12th in
endocrinology, 19th in neurology, and 20th in otolaryngology; Vanderbilt
University Hospital and Clinic in Nashville, 18th in endocrinology and 18th in
otolaryngology.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution

                              431 of 998 DOCUMENTS



             The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise (Alma, Kansas)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                October 28, 2010

Wamego City Hospital ranked best in the nation

BYLINE: The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise staff

LENGTH: 407  words


Wamego City Hospital has been recognized as the number one Small Hospital in the
nation in Modern Healthcare Magazine's Best Places to Work in Health Care
program. The hospital was also ranked twenty-fourth among the top 100 list and
fifth among healthcare groups with one to 99 employees.

The rankings were announced in Dallas on Oct. 18 at the awards gala, with
several Wamego City Hospital administrators and employees in attendance.

"We could not have been more proud to have been there to receive these honors on
behalf of our employees," Shannan Flach, CEO of Wamego City Hospital, said. "It
is because of their dedication and hard work that we were even considered for
the rankings."

The application for the Best Places to Work in Healthcare program consisted of
27 pages, which asked for employee statistics, as well as bonus and incentive
programs, community service initiatives the hospital sponsors and supports, and
what the organization did to promote exercise and fitness. One of two open-ended
essays asked employees to describe what makes the hospital a great place to
work. The application process also included a 72-question internal Employee
Engagement and Satisfaction Survey.

In its ranking of twenty-fourth among the top 100 Best Places to Work in
Healthcare, the hospital was measured against health care organizations from all
over the country and from the smallest with 25 employees to the largest with
over 12,000 employees. Wamego City Hospital has 75 employees.

"Being named one of the best places to work in healthcare in the nation was an
incredible honor, but to be named the Best Small Hospital is a real indication
that our employees are among the most passionate providers of excellent, high
quality health care in the country," Flach said.

Modern Healthcare is a highly recognized and respected magazine in the health
care industry, with a circulation of over 70,000. The Best Places to Work in
Healthcare program is sponsored by The Studer Group and the What's Right in
Health Care Conference and is intended to recognize outstanding employers in the
health care industry on a national level.

"Our healthcare team enjoys coming to work every day and serving the community
to the best of their ability, and for them to be recognized for that on a
national level, means that we are continuing the high level of service to this
community for which Wamego City Hospital has been known for nearly 100 years,"
Flach said.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Accomplishment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WAB

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
             Copyright 2010 The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise

                              432 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              May 26, 2017 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

WEST MILWAUKEE MAN DIES IN CUSTODY

BYLINE:  State Journal, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 603 words


MILWAUKEE ? A West Milwaukee man died after he was taken into custody by
officers who used stun guns during the arrest, police said.

Police said they were called to the man's apartment about 5 a.m. Thursday on
initial reports of a person naked, speaking incoherently and flooding the
apartment.

West Allis and West Milwaukee police said in a joint release that the man was
combative and officers used stun guns to take him into custody. Police said the
man stopped breathing while officers were monitoring him.

The man was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead. The cause of death
wasn't immediately known.

Police said a West Milwaukee officer suffered a minor injury and was treated at
a hospital and released.

Patient info breach at UW Hospital

MADISON ? An unauthorized person gained access to information about 2,036 UW
Hospital patients in March, a spokeswoman said Thursday.

While the breach didn't include patients' Social Security numbers, health
insurance information or other financial information, it did include files on
patient names, addresses, dates of care, reasons for visits, medical history and
conditions, medications, diagnostic results and/or social history, among others.

The March 16 incident was discovered by UW Hospital on March 28, spokeswoman
Lisa Brunette said.

The person accessed the information through an employee's email. Once
discovered, UW Hospital started an investigation, disabled the employee's email
and reset the password, Brunette said.

UW Hospital is sending letters to a group of patients about the incident and has
set up a call center to answer patient questions, she said.

Madison's parks rate No. 9 in nation

MADISON ? Madison's city parks are among the best in the country, ranked ninth
out of the 100 largest cities, according to a survey out on Thursday.

The Trust for Public Land's 2017 edition of ParkScore moved Madison up from a
tie for 10th in 2016 to ninth this year.

The Trust for Public Land expanded the rankings in 2016 to include the 100
largest cities in the U.S. ParkScore previously ranked the 40 largest cities in
the first year of rankings in 2012, then 50 cities in 2013, 60 cities in 2014
and 75 cities in 2015.

ParkScore uses a variety of factors in ranking a city's parks, including access,
acreage, facilities and investment.

Madison ranked high in number of basketball hoops, dog parks and playgrounds in
the city parks, as well as easy access, with 90 percent of the city's residents
within a 10-minute walk of a city park.

"Madison's ranking is something our community should be proud of," Parks
Superintendent Eric Knepp said.

"The commitment to quality public parks has provided for the development of a
park system that is the envy of many." Knepp said Minneapolis and St. Paul came
in 1-2 in the rankings again, followed by San Francisco; Washington, D.C.;
Portland, Oregon; Arlington, Virginia; Irvine, California; New York; Madison;
and Cincinnati.

Woman leaps into action, foils thief

MILWAUKEE ? A Wisconsin woman pumping gas near downtown Milwaukee stopped a
thief from stealing her SUV by jumping on its hood and clinging to the
windshield wipers as the man tried to drive away in her vehicle.

Melissa Smith admits it may not have been the best thing to do but says it was a
gut decision to stop the carjacking Tuesday afternoon.

Video of the attempted carjacking shows the would-be thief braking in the gas
station parking lot as he tries to throw Smith off the hood.

The thief gave up and got into another vehicle waiting in the parking lot.

Smith chased after the SUV as it rolled driverless into the street. She jumped
in and managed to stop it.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday

High grades received

BYLINE: By Derek Gentile, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 456 words


Thursday July 22, 2010

STOCKBRIDGE -- The Austen Riggs Center, a not-for-profit psychiatric facility
founded in the center of town 91 years ago, has been ranked 11th nationally
among such facilities in the United States, according to a study by U.S. News
and World Report.

The story will run in the August edition of the magazine but is already
available online at www.usnews.com/besthospitals . The magazine will be on
newsstands on July 27, according to the website.

According to the website, U.S. News evaluated a total of more than 5,000
hospitals nationally, in 16 different adult categories, including psychiatry.

The rankings in 12 of the 16 specialties were driven by hard data, according to
Health Rankings editor Avery Comarrow. These numbers included death rates,
procedure, volume and nurse-patient ratio. The four other categories, including
psychiatry, were ranked by reputation.

A total of 152 psychiatric facilities were included in the survey, according to
Lisa Lewis, director of communications for Riggs. Of that number, 24 made the
final cut.

The outstanding factor in the report, according to Chauncey Collins, director of
operations and finance at Riggs, is that Riggs is by far the smallest facility
on the list, with 74 beds and a total of 79 patients. The next closest in the
Meninger Clinic, in Houston, Texas, with 104 beds. Most of the rest of the top
10 are hospitals with hundreds of beds and greater resources, he said.

"We are a tiny hospital, a $17 million operation, compared to facilities like
Duke, Yale and Mass. General, which are much larger," he said.

"[The high ranking] shows that what we offer our patients, what we do here, we
do it well," said Lewis.

The hospital is the only such facility in the country that specializes in
intensive psychotherapy in an open setting, according to Riggs Medical
Director/CEO Dr. Edward Shapiro.

Another of the strengths of Riggs, said Lewis, is the longer term programs,
which allow patients to slow their treatment down, and give them time to
improve. Most psychiatric hospitals treat patients for days. Many of Riggs
treatment programs can last months.

This latest ranking comes on the heels of a $20 million expansion and renovation
program at Austen Riggs that is ongoing, said Collins.

The renovation work is continuing on several on-campus structures, as well as
work on Lavan Hall, located on West Main Street just down the street from Riggs,
and the so-called Lenox House, which Riggs bought a few years ago and worked on.
This was the old Lilac Inn.

Riggs has also completed a new Community Center at the rear of the main
structures. There are still some ongoing projects, said Collins, which will
admittedly depend on how much money is raised to cover their costs.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The newly built Community Center is juxtaposed with the original
administration building at the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             June 21, 2016 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Youth WILL BE SERVED N.Y. area dominates list of best health centers for kids

BYLINE: BY LISA L. COLANGELO NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 404 words


They are medical centers that serve some of the youngest and most fragile of
patients, ranging from tiny premature babies to teens suffering from
debilitating diseases.

Nine New York area hospitals placed in the top 50 in the country in at least one
medical specialty, according to annual rankings released Tuesday by U.S News &
World Report.

"We know how desperate parents are for information when their child is in the
middle of a major medical crisis and decisions have to be made fast," said Avery
Comarow, health rankings editor at U.S News & World Report.

The magazine's researchers evaluated 183 children's hospitals across the nation
and determined how they ranked among 10 specialties that include cancer,
neonatology, cardiology and heart surgery.

New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital ranked in the top 50
for all 10 specialties, reaching No. 9 in the nation for both neonatology and
diabetes/endocrinology.

The rigorous analysis was based on data from the hospitals as well as a survey
of pediatric specialists.

"It says something about a real commitment to care that more than 100 children's
hospitals voluntarily completed our clinical survey," Comarow said. "It is very
long and complicated. We've been told it costs a hospital tens of thousands of
dollars in staff time."

Three local hospitals made the top 50 rankings in seven categories: the Steven
and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical Center in New Hyde Park, L.I.; Mount
Sinai Kravis Children's Hospital in Manhattan, and the Children's Hospital at
Montefiore in the Bronx.

Cohen was ranked 13th nationally for urology, while Mount Sinai ranked 21st for
pulmonology and urology and Montefiore ranked 17th for nephrology.

Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center was ranked 14th in the nation for
pediatric cancer care. Other New York metropolitan area hospitals that ranked in
the top 50 in at least one category included Maria Fareri Children's Hospital in
Westchester County; Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I.; Bristol-Myers
Squibb Children's Hospital at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New
Brunswick, N.J., and Yale-New Haven Children's Hospital in Connecticut.

Analysts also put together an annual Honor Roll for hospitals with exceptionally
high scores in three or more specialties. This year's list includes 11
hospitals, leading off with Boston Children's Hospital followed by the
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mothers and fathers have a wealth of excellent options in the
metropolitan area if their children require specialized medical attention. KATHY
KMONICEK; ROBERT SABO/DAILY NEWS; MICHAEL SCHWARTZ

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.

                              435 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

For SMH, superlative in area of geriatrics

BYLINE: KEVIN L. MCQUAID

SECTION: C; ARTICLE; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


SARASOTA

Sarasota Memorial Hospital has been named among the best health care centers in
the nation for the treatment of seniors, the third consecutive year it has
received the superlative ranking.

U.S. News & World Report's annual "best hospitals" ranking, in its 20th year and
considered one of the top measurements of care in 16 various specialties, listed
Sarasota Memorial as 37th on a list of 50 for geriatric care.

The hospital had been ranked 43rd in 2008. Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, in
Los Angeles, was ranked tops this year.

More than half of the roughly 103,000 patients Sarasota Memorial treats annually
are 65 or older, hospital data shows.

"Sarasota Memorial has put together an extraordinary group of physicians and
taken numerous steps in quality improvements, steps that are ahead of the
nation," said Dr. Bruce Robinson, a board certified geriatrician and medical
director of the hospital's geriatric services.

The magazine considered reputation; a hospital's ability to keep patients alive;
how well it minimized harm to patients; and nurse staffing, technology and other
patient care-related information in compiling its rankings.

Sarasota Memorial is one of six Florida hospitals recognized for geriatric care.
The others were Shands Healthcare at the University of Florida, Gainesville;
Mount Sinai Medical Center, in Miami Beach; Jackson Memorial Hospital at the
University Of Miami; the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville; and Tampa General.

Robinson said Sarasota Memorial's electronic record-keeping, focus on patient
safety and medical library, in particular, make the hospital stand out when
treating seniors.

Sarasota Memorial also maintains a memory disorder center for the treatment of
Alzheimer's Disease, and is among only 5 percent of U.S. hospitals designated by
an American Nurses Association group as a "magnet" hospital for nursing
excellence.

"We've learned to create systems that make it harder for individual mistakes to
result in bad patient outcomes," Robinson said.

In all, the magazine and North Carolina-based research firm RTI International
analyzed 4,861 hospitals nationwide and determined just 174 met criteria to be
on their list.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Bruce Robinson heads the Memory Disorder Clinic at Sarasota
Memorial. The hospital has won praise for its treatment of seniors for a third
year in a row. PHOTO:HERALD-TRIBUNE ARCHIVE / 2007 / DAN WAGNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                            December 12, 2014 Friday

Prasert richest man on SET

LENGTH: 574  words


Prasert Prasarttongosoth has been ranked the wealthiest man on the Stock
Exchange of Thailand (SET) for the second consecutive year, with publicly listed
shares worth 57.91 billion baht, up 58.24% from the previous year.

Dr Prasert (left), with 58 billion baht, is the richest man on the SET, followed
by Thongma Vijitpongpun of Pruksa Real Estate (top right) and Keeree Kanjanapas
of BTS Group. (Bangkok Post file )

The annual ranking, conducted by the Money &amp; Banking magazine and
Chulalongkorn University's Faculty of Economics, used the share valuation on
Sept 30. It took into account only public information of shareholders and did
not include holdings by nominees or family members.

As the largest shareholder of Bangkok Dusit Medical Services Plc (BGH), the
operator of Bangkok, Samitivej, BNH and Phyathai hospitals, Dr Prasert had a
20.19% stake worth 57.87 billion baht. He also owned a 0.79% stake in Nonthavej
Hospital Plc (NTV) worth 42.77 million baht.

His holdings calculated in the ranking did not include that in Bangkok Airways
Plc (BA), which debuted on the SET after the ranking was compiled. Dr Prasert
held 18.24% in BA as of Oct 27. Based on Thursday's closing price, his stake in
the carrier was worth 8.28 billion baht.

Dr Prasert first joined the list in 2004, when he was ranked 26th, with shares
worth 1.56 billion baht.

Trailing him in the 2014 ranking was Thongma Vijitpongpun, chairman of executive
committee and CEO of Pruksa Real Estate Plc (PS), who fell to the fifth in the
previous year.

Mr Thongma's 54.59% stake in PS was worth 41.58 billion baht, up 63.36% from
2013. The gain was largely due to higher valuation of the stock, which surged
75.64% yearonyear to 34.25 baht a share.

Keeree Kanjanapas, chairman of the skytrain operator BTS Group, slid a notch to
the third this year, even though his holdings rose by 14.55% to 39.20 billion
baht.

He owned 32.58% of BTS worth 38.81 billion baht, 0.6% in developer Sansiri Plc
(SIRI) worth 129.92 million baht and 0.54% of media company VGI Global Media Plc
(VGI) worth 258.46 million baht.

Somphote Ahunai, a former managing director of Yuanta Securities (Thailand) Co
Ltd who turned to energy businesses under Energy Absolute Plc (EA), jumped from
the 10th last year to the fourth this year. He had 36.56 billion baht worth of
shares, up a whopping 260.76% from 2013. His holdings were in EA (40.47% worth
36.53 billion baht) and Eternal Energy Plc (0.94% worth 31.72 million baht).

Anant Asavabhokhin, chairman and CEO of Land and Houses Plc, came at fifth from
fourth in the previous year, with 24.789 billion baht, down 3.70% from last
year.

Niti Osatanukroh, a stock investor, came at sixth, with 24.02 billion, up 28.98%
from the previous year.

Wichai Thongtang, an investor, slipped a notch to the seventh this year. His
holdings in several companies including BGH were worth 20.29 billion baht, up
0.80% from 2013. He was followed by Hathai Siriviriyakul, with her 42.82% stake
in the sugar producer Kaset Thai International Sugar Corporation Plc (KTIS)
worth 18.68 billion baht, up 0.82% yearonyear.

With his 25.84% stake in the telecom and internet service provider Jasmine
International, Pete Bodharamik came ninth, with 16.56 billion baht, down 37.46%.
The 10th went to William Heinecke, chairman of the hospitality and food company
Minor International Plc (MINT), down from the eighth last year, with 13.06
billion baht, up 16.61% from the previous year.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            December 8, 2008 Monday

Patients give Pomona hospital high marks

BYLINE: Monica Rodriguez, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 204 words


POMONA - Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center has been ranked in the top 5
percent of the nation's hospitals for patient satisfaction.

"We take pride in the care we provide our patients, and we are encouraged that
the past experiences of our patients at PVHMC are such that they have rated us
so highly," said Richard Yochum, medical center president, in a news release.
"We intend to continue to provide this level of patient care, or better, in the
years to come."

The ranking was by HealthGrades of Golden, Colo., which rates various
health-care organizations and makes its findings available to consumers.

HealthGrades compiled information from standardized surveys completed by
patients to compile the rankings, which were released Monday.

The Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems survey
contains questions related to a patient's hospital experience.

HealthGrades reviewed 2007 survey data f from 2,591 U.S. hospitals, said Scott
Shapiro, HealthGrades spokesman.

Previously, HealthGrades has given high marks to the hospital inpatient
outcomes.

"For a hospital to meet that threshold and now be in the top 5 percent (of
hospitals in patient satisfaction) speaks to both parts of quality," Shapiro
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Expert: Hospital ratings need 'scrutiny' after LGH gets vastly different
rankings

BYLINE: By Grant Welker, gwelker@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 975 words


Someone looking to gauge how well local hospitals keep patients safe are
confronted with a dizzying array of methods that groups use: letter grades,
numbers, stars, check marks, percentages and colors. In few cases do hospitals
receive an overall easy-to-comprehend score.

Lowell General Hospital recently earned a "C" for its Varnum Avenue campus, its
lowest score in several years issued by the nonprofit health-care advocate The
Leapfrog Group. The hospital's Saints campus, the former Saints Medical Center,
earned a "B."

The scores are a surprise to those who work in patient care and safety at Lowell
General.

"It actually kind of caused us to scratch our heads a little bit," said Erin
Donovan, the hospital's director of quality and risk management.

The Leapfrog ratings are just one of several that offer a look at patient safety
at each hospital, each using a different way of showing how well hospitals do.
While Leapfrog issues separate scores for both of Lowell General's main
campuses, the other main rating websites lump the Varnum Avenue and Saints sites
together.

QualityCheck.org issues stars, plus and minus signs, and check marks. It gave
Lowell General a gold seal as a sign of high achievement. The gold seal was the
result of a lot of plus signs and check marks in such areas as heart-attack
care, perinatal care and pneumonia care.

PatientCareLink compares Lowell General Hospital to peer hospitals in nearly 50
areas, as well as hospitals nationally and statewide in another dozen
categories. In each of those 12 categories, the hospital, rated as a single
campus, was rated as "no different" than the national rate.

Compare that to the Leapfrog scores, in which the Varnum Avenue and Saints
campuses were each scored in 28 categories -- and none fell into the average.

Leapfrog rates each category by the colors green, yellow or red -- that is,
above average, average or below average, respectively. Both hospital campuses
were either green or red in each of the 28 categories.

The two hospitals performed best in the surgery safety categories, each landing
above average in such areas as the use of antibiotics and blood-clot prevention.

Medicare.gov , an official federal government rating service, showed Lowell
General at three stars out of five in a patient survey.

In dozens of other areas, the hospital was reviewed by Medicare.gov as the
percentage of patients who answered in the affirmative to care in a number of
categories. Those percentages are then compared to state and national averages.

"The data can be sliced and diced many different ways," said Donovan, whose
staff includes about 20 workers who focus on patient safety.

Dr. Deeb Salem, the physician-in-chief and chairman of Tufts Medical Center's
Department of Medicine, co-authored with two colleagues a study over the spring
in the Journal of General Internal Medicine that found that hospital rankings
"may be inadequate, inaccurate or even potentially harmful to patients."

Salem said rankings or reviews should be subjected to a peer review before being
published as benchmarks.

"People talk about the scores," he said in an interview, "but it needs more and
more scrutiny, where they're coming from and who is doing them."

Just this month, the Journal of the American Medical Association published an
article that acknowledged limitations of one hospital-ranking system, that of
the U.S. News & World Report, which is also known for its college rankings.

The authors, both with the U.S. News & World Report, said reviewing services
"must make numerous trade-offs" in creating methods for data. The publication
plans to refine its reporting methods, they said.

"Quality measurement is an immature science," the authors said.

Salem said he came across one ranking service, which he declined to name, that
is known to assign a hospital a low score, offer consulting work to improve its
grades, and then bump the hospital's score. In another case, an agency ranked
Tufts first for stroke death rates one year and then worst in the next, he said.

"But nothing changed" to account for the ratings difference, he said.

Still, he added, hospitals do pay attention to the external reviews out of
concern for their reputations.

Leapfrog's ratings are established enough to be linked to by a state health
website.

Tufts Medical Center, with which Lowell General Hospital formed a new umbrella
parent company last year called Wellforce, received a "B."

Lowell General's latest scores by Leapfrog represented the lowest rating for its
main campus in the several years the rating system has been in place. Hospitals
are rated twice each year.

For the first 2 1/2 years, the Varnum Avenue campus earned an A, the highest
score.

But last fall, it got a B for the first time. This time, it fell to a C, landing
in the lowest 15 percent of Massachusetts hospitals that were studied.

The Saints campus performed better. The campus, which offers the same services
as the main campus except for maternity, earned a B this spring. It had scores
ranging between As and Cs in the past.

Follow Grant Welker on Twitter and Tout @SunGrantWelker.

Breakout

Massachusetts hospitals fared well in the latest Leapfrog ratings. Of 62
hospitals ranked in the state, 32 earned an A. Twenty received a B, and 10 got a
C.

Nationwide, three-fifths of hospitals earned an A or a B. The largest number
received a C, with smaller numbers earning a D or an F.

Area hospital scores as ranked this spring by Leapfrog:

Emerson Hospital, Concord -- A

HealthAlliance Hospital, Leominster -- C

Holy Family Hospital, Methuen -- A

Lahey Hospital and Medical Center, Burlington -- A

Lawrence General Hospital, Lawrence -- C

Lowell General Hospital Varnum Avenue campus -- C

Lowell General Hospital Saints campus -- B

Nashoba Valley Medical Center, Ayer -- A

St. Joseph's Hospital, Nashua -- C

Southern New Hampshire Medical Center, Nashua -- A

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                             July 15, 2001, Sunday

POLK FACILITIES LEFT OFF LIST OF BEST HOSPITALS

BYLINE: ROBIN WILLIAMS ADAMS The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 374 words


LAKELAND -- Polk County doesn't have any hospitals on the annual "America's Best
Hospitals" list by U.S. News & World Report, which is due on newsstands Monday
and already is on the magazine's Web site.

Five in Florida are, however, including H. Lee Moffitt Cancer and Research
Center at the University of South Florida in Tampa. The magazine ranked Moffitt,
which has affiliate doctors in Polk County, 21st in cancer care.

The center has been moving up in that report, going from 22nd last year and 34th
in 1999.

"You can get as good cancer care here as anywhere in the country," said Jack
Pledger, associate center director for basic research, pointing out that
15-year-old Moffitt is "probably the newest cancer center on this whole list."

Moffitt employees can be proud of the ranking, which also reflects favorably on
the USF College of Medicine, he said.

Dr. John C. Ruckdeschel, chief executive at Moffitt, said the ranking and
Moffitt's recent designation as a National Cancer Institute comprehensive cancer
center show the center's research and clinical expertise.

Shands Hospital at the University of Florida placed in nine categories: 24th in
cancer treatment, 32nd in kidney diseases, 37th in hormonal disorders, 48th in
gynecology, 20th in orthopedics and 25th in digestive disorders, neurology,
ear-nose-and-throat and urology.

Bascom Palmer Eye Center at the University of Miami ranked second nationwide in
ophthalmology. The university's Jackson Memorial Hospital was 20th in
pediatrics, 42nd in orthopedics and 43rd in kidney disease.

Florida Hospital Medical Center in Orlando, 601 E. Rollins, placed 32nd in heart
treatment, 34th in hormonal disorders and 49th in digestive disorders.

Orlando Regional Medical Center ranked 17th in heart treatment.

Rankings are based on such things as reputation, reflecting the percentage of
doctors naming a hospital in three annual surveys; mortality rate, actual
compared with expected deaths; and other factors such as the ratio of registered
nurses to hospital beds, the magazine said.

The rankings can be viewed on line at www.usnews.com by clicking "Best
Hospitals."

Robin Williams Adams can be reached at robinwadams99@yahoo.com or 863-802-7558.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 2001 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation

                              440 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Joplin Globe (Missouri)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 27, 2017 Thursday

Business briefs

BYLINE: The Joplin Globe, Mo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 526 words


April 27--Tyson Foods to acquire

AdvancePierre Foods

Tyson Foods announced this week that it plans to acquire AdvancePierre Foods
Holdings Inc. for $40.25 per share in cash.

Ohio-based AdvancePierre is a national producer of ready-to-eat lunch and dinner
sandwiches, sandwich components and snacks, "with product categories that are
complementary to Tyson's current offerings," the two companies said in a joint
statement.

The total value of the deal, which has been approved by the boards of directors
of both companies, is approximately $4.2 billion.

Freeman earns honor

for patient safety

Freeman Health System was honored with an A grade in The Leapfrog Group Spring
2017 Hospital Safety Score. Freeman is one of 22 hospitals in Missouri to
receive the grade. The score rates how well hospitals protect patients from
errors, accidents, injuries and infections.

The Hospital Safety Score is compiled under the guidance of the The Leapfrog
Group and is the first and only safety rating to be peer-reviewed in the Journal
of Patient Safety. The score uses 30 measures of publicly available hospital
safety data to produce a single-letter grade.

Freeman operates hospitals in both Joplin and Neosho.

Mercy earns top rank

in Truven rating

Mercy announced that it was ranked one of the top five large health care systems
in the country in the 2017 Truven Health 15 Top Health Systems rating.

The ranking analyzes 337 health systems and 2,924 hospitals across the United
States, and awards five large, five medium and five small health care systems.

Shorter hospital stays, fewer complications and better patient results are just
a few metrics used in the ranking. Other factors that were included in the
ranking were cost of care, higher patient satisfaction and shorter wait times in
emergency rooms.

Mercy operates hospitals in Joplin, Carthage, Aurora and Cassville, as well as
in Columbus and Fort Scott, Kansas.

People in business

DAN STANLEY, a member of the board of directors for the Joplin Regional
Community Foundation, recently received a Board Member Award of Excellence from
the Community Foundation of the Ozarks.

Stanley was one of five board leaders within the CFO's 49-member affiliate
network honored at the annual affiliate conference on April 19 in Springfield.

"Dan has been a champion for the Joplin area for many years and we want to
recognize and honor those contributions, particularly through his work with the
Joplin Regional Community Foundation," CFO President Brian Fogle said.

The JRCF was founded in 2006 and holds more than 90 funds with assets of more
than $5 million as of March 31.

JIM HOGAN, a graduate of Pittsburg (Kansas) State University, will be inducted
into the Kansas Teachers Hall of Fame, the university announced.

Hogan taught high school industrial arts for 35 years in Coffeyville and
Independence before retiring in 2005.

Hogan graduated from PSU with a bachelor's degree in industrial arts education
in 1970 and earned a master's degree in industrial arts education from PSU in
1978.

___ (c)2017 The Joplin Globe (Joplin, Mo.) Visit The Joplin Globe (Joplin, Mo.)
at www.joplinglobe.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170427-JL-Business-briefs-0427-20170427

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JL


                        Copyright 2017 The Joplin Globe

                              441 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

UCSF and Stanford in top 20 in US News hospital rankings

BYLINE: Lisa M. Krieger

LENGTH: 376 words



HIGHLIGHT: Of hospitals in California, three stood out: UCSF, UCLA Medical
Center and Stanford.  All were nationally ranked in nine to 15 specialties.


The Bay Area has two of the top ten medical institutions in the nation,
according to the US News & World Reports 2017-2018 Best Hospitals survey.

UCSF Medical Center ranks fifth and Stanford Health Care-Stanford Hospital ranks
ninth, according to the popular accolade, released Tuesday.

An increasing number of organizations, such as Consumer Reports and the federal
governments Medicare and Medicaid Services, evaluate hospitals on a broad array
of data-driven measures.           Beloved doctor, 92, closes decades-old
practice, ends era of old-fashioned house calls

First human embryo editing experiment in U.S. corrects gene for heart condition

Autism linked to imbalance in how brain cells chat

Dolores Huerta: Voter-approved death with dignity laws threatened by Congress

Why UC-Berkeley is fighting back over CRISPR patent claim

But hospitals take great pride in reaching the top of the annual US News & World
Report ranking, which names 20 hospitals the publisher believes deliver
exceptional treatment in multiple areas of specialized, high-complexity
inpatient care.

In addition to UCSF and Stanford, the top ten hospitals in the nation were Mayo
Clinic, Cleveland Clinic, Johns Hopkins, Massachusetts General, University of
Michigan, UCLA Medical Center, New York-Presbyterian and University of
Pennsylvania.

Of hospitals in California, three stood out: UCSF, UCLA Medical Center and
Stanford.  All were nationally ranked in nine to 15 specialties.

In the South Bay, these were the three leaders: Stanford, El Camino Hospital in
Mountain View and Kaiser Permanente in Santa Clara.

In San Francisco and the East Bay, the three leaders were: UCSF and John Muir
Medical Centers in Walnut Creek and Concord.

In a separate set of pediatric rankings, UCSF Benioff Childrens Hospitals, with
locations in Oakland and San Francisco, placed among the nations premier
childrens hospitals in nine pediatric specialties and was first in Northern
California in five of those: cancer, diabetes and endocrinology, neonatology,
neurology and neurosurgery, and urology.

To read the details of the survey, which also ranks hospitals by specialty and
procedure, go to: http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Morning Call

                            January 3, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FIRST Edition

Medicare penalizes 3 Valley hospitals

BYLINE: Michelle Merlin

SECTION: NEWS; A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 732  words


Three hospitals in the Lehigh Valley are taking a financial hit for being among
facilities nationwide with infection and complication rates that the federal
government considers high.

A new report places Easton Hospital, Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest and St.
Luke's Anderson campus in the bottom 25 percent for hospital-acquired
conditions. The ranking means that Medicare is reducing payments to those
hospitals by 1 percent for one year - a period that began in October.

This year 769 of 3,203 hospitals reviewed were penalized, up from 751 last year,
according to the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

St. Luke's University Health Network's Miners campus in Schuylkill County,
Geisinger Medical Center in Montour County and the University of Pennsylvania
and Thomas Jefferson University hospitals in Philadelphia also are among the 40
facilities in Pennsylvania facing cuts.

The report, released in December, is part of the Affordable Care Act's Hospital
-Acquired Condition Reduction Program, which seeks to get hospitals to stem
preventable conditions such as surgical-site infections, post-operative hip
fractures, sepsis and accidental lacerations.

Nationally, hospital-acquired conditions fell by 21 percent between 2010 and
2015, according to the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. The
biggest reductions were for bad reactions to medicines, catheter infections and
post-surgical blood clots. The rankings are based on infection data from January
2014 to December 2015 and other patient safety data from July 2013 to June 2015.

For Lehigh Valley Health Network's Cedar Crest campus, the penalty will result
in a loss of more than $1 million, said Dr. Anthony Ardire, LVHN senior vice
president for quality and patient safety. This is the third year the hospital is
in the bottom quartile, according to data from Kaiser Health News that looked
at which hospitals were on the list in past years.

Officials at Easton Hospital and St. Luke's didn't say how much their 1 percent
losses amounted to.

This is the first year Easton Hospital and St. Luke's Anderson and Miners
campuses are on the list.

Ardire lauded efforts to make hospitals safer. But he said the ranking is unfair
because it doesn't account for the type of patient that facilities such as
Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest attracts - those with more serious conditions
who have longer stays and weakened defense systems. Smaller community hospitals,
he said, tend to have healthier patients who get released faster, reducing the
chance for hospital-acquired conditions.

"It penalizes hospitals with the sickest patients that get all the referrals,
with the regional burn centers and the regional trauma centers," Ardire said.

But a spokesperson for the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
said in an email that the rankings are adjusted for risk, including factors that
could affect infection rates such as patient age.

Ardire said the Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest has improved its outcomes
since the latest rankings were tallied. From July to November of this year,
infections were down compared to the previous five months, with the rate of
catheter-associated urinary tract infections and central-line-associated
bloodstream infections down more than 50 percent.

Infections from clostridium difficile, a bacterium that can cause
life-threatening inflammation of the colon, have fallen 43 percent. He said the
entire network made several changes, including using vein catheters that release
antibiotics and antibiotic-treated dressings and allowing nurses to remove
catheters in a more timely fashion.

Easton Hospital spokesman Stephen Wilson said the hospital recruited a new
director for infection prevention in 2015 and saw an overall decrease in
hospital-acquired infections in 2016, specifically in central-line-associated
bloodstream infections and catheter-associated urinary tract infections. He said
the hospital also is focused on reducing surgical-site infections and has
updated its policies.

"We also regularly conduct staff training, consult with wound specialists for
best dressing techniques and a multidisciplinary team addresses identified
infections," Wilson said in a statement.

St. Luke's spokeswoman Mariella Miller said current data have shown improvement,
but had no additional information.

Database editor Eugene Tauber contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

U.S. News ranking could draw more patients to Mayo Clinic

BYLINE: Jeff Hansel, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 616 words


July 16--Mayo Clinic's No. 1 hospital ranking by U.S. News & World Report might
have economic implications for Rochester.

Brad Jones, executive director of the Rochester Convention and Visitors Bureau,
said 70 percent of Rochester visitors travel to the city for reasons connected,
in some way, to Mayo.

About 10 percent of those people are vendors, convention attendees, contractors,
suppliers, pharmaceutical representatives, etc. But the rest visit for medical
reasons.

The No. 2 and No. 3 hospitals, Massachusetts General in Boston and Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore, are located in large cities that might not even notice an
uptick in visitors related to health care.

Sara Hismoto, a spokeswoman for the Baltimore Convention and Visitors Bureau,
said Baltimore has "not done any research on the U.S. News and World Report
rankings and how it relates to economic impact."

"At this time, we only track visitation in general terms -- overall visitors
broken down into leisure and business -- we haven't breached the medical tourism
category to get into any specifics in that arena," she said.

Both Boston and Baltimore have populations of more than 600,000 people, whereas
Rochester has recently surpassed the 100,000 mark and is growing.

On Tuesday, Mayo Clinic quickly arranged a question-and-answer session for local
media with CEO Dr. John Noseworthy.

He said the U.S. News rankings include measures of reputation, patient volume,
services and quality of care.

"We're very pleased to be recognized for that," he said.

Will the No. 1 ranking affect Rochester's standing related to the $6 billion
Destination Medical Center effort?Noseworthy said it will, but he emphasized
that DMC is broader than Mayo Clinic. It's a community effort.

The Mayo ranking, Noseworthy noted, includes No. 1 spots in eight specialties
and No. 2 spots in three.

"Mayo Clinic has the largest percentage of patients who travel to get that
care," he said. "It'll bring more patients to Mayo Clinic, and that's a good
thing, in my opinion."

What's different this year that pushed Mayo to the top? Noseworthy said that
remains unclear, and staff will be analyzing data as it becomes available from
U.S. News.

He surmised Mayo's continued focus on hospital mortality rates and infection
rates might have had an impact and pointed to Mayo employees as the reason for
improvement.

"We have the best staff in the world," he said.

Jones said there are many ranking lists. But U.S. News is considered the gold
standard. About 30 percent to 40 percent of patients in general will look at
rankings when deciding upon a medical center.

"That number soars with specialties," Jones said. When patients are seeking a
specialist in, say, neurosurgery (Mayo is ranked No. 1 in the country), 70
percent to 80 percent will consider rankings before making an appointment.

It's always going to be a race for No. 1, Jones said. But any time a medical
center is in the top three or four (Mayo ranks there in 11 out of 12
specialties), patients will have confidence.

DMC, Jones said, is not limited by health expertise -- because it's always been
clear Mayo has that expertise available. Rather, DMC will depend upon adding
community amenities to support the availability of that medical expertise.

"We have a very, very bright future. It's a great time to be in health care.
It's a great time to be at Mayo Clinic," Noseworthy said.

The ranking gave a morale boost to Rochester and infused extra positivity into
the Mayo work environment on Tuesday.

"I think there's a little bit of a spring in our step today," Noseworthy said.
"It's nice."

___ (c)2014 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140716-RC-U-S-News-ranking
-could-draw-more-patients-to-Mayo-Clinic-0716-20140716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2014 Post-Bulletin

                              444 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                              June 13, 2014 Friday

Grace Cottage Hospital recognized as one of the best in New England

SECTION: HEALTH; Lifestyle

LENGTH: 336 words


TOWNSHEND -- Grace Cottage Hospital has been named one of New England's Top 50
Hospitals based on patient satisfaction, according to a report recently
published by GoLocalProv. Grace Cottage was rated No. 14 of all New England
hospitals in the ranking, the highest among Vermont hospitals.

Hospitals do not apply for this award, but are selected for this prestigious
annual list based on a scoring process that incorporates Hospital Consumer
Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems standardized surveys completed by
patients. Eighty-eight percent of Grace Cottage's patients who completed the
surveys said that "Doctors always communicate well" and the same percentage said
that "Nurses always communicate well."

"Everyone who works here at Grace Cottage goes beyond patient care," said Grace
Cottage CEO Roger Allbee, "and we are pleased that patients recognize this when
they complete their patient satisfaction surveys."

Grace Cottage Hospital, Copley Hospital, Mt. Ascutney Hospital, and Southwestern
Vermont Medical Center were the four Vermont hospitals recognized in the Top 50
listing. South County Hospital in Rhode Island, Fairview Hospital in
Massachusetts, and Mount Desert Island Hospital in Maine were the top three
hospitals in the ranking. For more information about the survey, go to
www.golocalprov.com .

Founded in 1949 by Dr. Carlos Otis, Grace Cottage Hospital is a Critical Access
Hospital offering a variety of health care services, including: a 19-bed
hospital with a 24/7 emergency department; an imaging department with digital
X-ray, CT scanner, bone densitometer, and ultrasound; a full-service lab; a
rehab department with physical, occupational, and speech therapy services for
inpatient and outpatient treatment; an outpatient rural health clinic with
family practice doctors and a mental health department; a community wellness
center hosting a variety of classes; and a full-service pharmacy open to the
public.

For more information about Grace Cottage, visit www.gracecottage.org .

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

Editorial: San Rafael Kaiser scores points on 2 key fronts

BYLINE: Marin Independent Journal Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 370 words


KAISER MEDICAL Center in San Rafael is on a roll.

The Marin facility was named one of the top 65 hospitals in the United States by
a Washington, D.C.-based coalition of purchasers of health insurance coverage.

Leap Frog Group based its ranking on each participating hospital's performance
in key areas of patient care and quality. Kaiser was among 1,200 U.S. hospitals
that took part in Leap Frog's annual review. There are about 5,800 registered
U.S. hospitals, according to the American Hospital Association.

Kaiser's local physicians, nurses, technicians, administrators and staff should
take pride in the hospital's impressive ranking.

Kaiser's Marin membership has grown in recent years as it has expanded its
services and attracted local physicians into its ranks.

Leap Frog's review is available at www.leapfroggroup.org ; the group's name
illustrates its goal to encourage great leaps forward in quality of care and
safety for patients.

The honor was announced the same week as Kaiser's plans to expand its Terra
Linda medical campus, including adding much-needed parking made the front page.

Kaiser's growth is illustrated most days as vehicles overflow the hospital's
parking lot and garage and line Montecello Road, often stretching onto nearby
neighborhood streets.

Kaiser set up shop in Terra Linda in the early 1960s and has grown to where
about 50 percent of Marin's insured households are Kaiser patients.

Kaiser's plan to build a new garage with 290 more parking spaces should be
welcome news for neighbors and Kaiser's patients.

The hospital also wants to expand its emergency room to add three more treatment
bays.

The hospital sits on top of a hill and is surrounded by homes and a school,
makes expansion more complicated than if it was on a flat site with more elbow
room.

But Kaiser's plan appears workable, for the hospital and for neighbors, who have
coped with parking problems for a long time.

Kaiser wisely has indicated it will work closely with its neighbors in coming up
with a solution that will benefit all concerned.

The hospital's commitment to quality and service is a big reason why it earned
such an impressive ranking. Solving its parking problem will score more points
with patients and neighbors.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2010 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Many yardsticks for hospital grades

BYLINE: By Grant Welker, gwelker@lowellsun.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 887 words


Someone looking to gauge how well local hospitals keep patients safe are
confronted with a dizzying array of methods that groups use: letter grades,
numbers, stars,

check marks, percentages and colors. In few cases do hospitals receive an
overall easy-to-comprehend score.

HealthAlliance Hospital in Leominster earned a C, its third straight semiannual
period with that score, after otherwise recording A's and B's from the nonprofit
health-care advocate The Leapfrog Group.

The Leapfrog ratings are just one of several reviews that give patients a look
at patient safety at each hospital, each using a different way of showing how
well hospitals do. Not only do they all use different methods but all seem to
give conflicting pictures of how well a hospital is doing.

HealthAlliance, part of UMass Memorial Health Care, ranked as the safest in
Massachusetts for consecutive years by Consumer Reports, said Dr. Dan O'Leary,
the hospital's chief medical officer, "but in those two years, we weren't ranked
high by Leapfrog."

If HealthAlliance's performance were truly worth a C, "we would not be happy,"
O'Leary said.

But there are a range of other groups that rank hospital performances.

QualityCheck.org issues stars, plus and minus signs, and check marks. It gave
HealthAlliance a gold seal as a sign of high achievement. The gold seal was the
result of a lot of plus signs and check marks in areas including heart-attack
care and pneumonia care.

PatientCareLink compares HealthAlliance Hospital to peer hospitals in nearly 50
areas, as well as hospitals nationally and statewide in another dozen
categories. In each of those 12 categories, the hospital was rated as "no
different" than the national rate.

Compare that to the Leapfrog scores, in which HealthAlliance was scored in more
than 20 categories -- and none fell into the average.

Leapfrog rates each category by the colors green, yellow or red -- that is,
above average, average or below average, respectively. HealthAlliance landed in
either green or red in each category, as did many others, including Lowell
General Hospital.

Medicare.gov , an official federal government rating service, showed
HealthAlliance at three stars out of five in a patient survey.

In dozens of other areas, the hospital was reviewed by Medicare.gov as the
percentage of patients who answered in the affirmative to care in a number of
categories. Those percentages are then compared to state and national averages.

HealthAlliance has a better and more updated method to gauge its performance,
O'Leary said -- a monthly evaluation it gives regularly to the hospital's board
of trustees.

Compared to ratings agencies that can use data that in some cases is several
years old, "we care about tomorrow's performance," O'Leary said.

"They get data that is real time, last month's performance," he said of the
hospital's trustees.

Many others in health care have reservations or worse about outside reviews.

Dr. Deeb Salem, the physician-in-chief and chairman of Tufts Medical Center's
department of medicine, co-authored with two colleagues a study this spring in
the Journal of General Internal Medicine that found that hospital rankings "may
be inadequate, inaccurate or even potentially harmful to patients."

Salem said rankings or reviews should be subjected to a peer review before being
published as benchmarks.

"People talk about the scores," he said in an interview, "but it needs more and
more scrutiny, where they're coming from and who is doing them."

Just this month, the Journal of the American Medical Association published an
article that acknowledged limitations of one hospital-ranking system, that of
the U.S. News & World Report, which is also known for its college rankings.

The authors, both with the U.S. News & World Report, said reviewing services
"must make numerous trade-offs" in creating methods for data. The publication
plans to refine its reporting methods, they said.

"Quality measurement is an immature science," the authors said.

Salem said he came across one ranking service, which he declined to name, that
is known to assign a hospital a low score, offer consulting work to improve its
grades, and then bump the hospital's score up. In another case, an agency ranked
Tufts first for stroke death rates one year and then worst in the next, he said.

"But nothing changed" to account for the ratings difference, he said. Still, he
added, hospitals do pay attention to the external reviews out of concern for
their reputation.

Follow Grant Welker on Twitter and Tout @SunGrantWelker.

Mass. hospital ratings

Massachusetts hospitals fared well in the latest Leapfrog ratings. Of 62
hospitals ranked in the state, 32 earned an A. Twenty received a B, and 10 got a
C.

Nationwide, three-fifths of hospitals earned an A or a B. The largest number
received a C, with smaller numbers earning a D or an F. Area hospital scores as
ranked this spring by Leapfrog:

* Emerson Hospital, Concord -- A

* HealthAlliance Hospital, Leominster -- C

* Holy Family Hospital, Methuen -- A

* Lahey Hospital and Medical Center, Burlington -- A

* Lawrence General Hospital, Lawrence -- C

* Lowell General Hospital Varnum Avenue campus -- C

* Lowell General Hospital Saints campus -- B

* Nashoba Valley Medical Center, Ayer -- A

* St. Joseph's Hospital, Nashua -- C

* Southern New Hampshire Medical Center, Nashua -- A

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                  ALL EDITION

SETTING IT STRAIGHT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 110 words


Children's hospital rankings updated

U.S. News and World Report recalculated some of its latest rankings of top
children's hospitals. UW Hospital's American Family Children's Hospital is 27th
in pulmonology, 28th in neonatology, 32nd in gastroenterology and 33rd in
cancer. Those rankings are slightly different from the ones U.S. News initially
released, as reported in a brief item on the front page of the Business section
June 6.

The Wisconsin State Journal strives to be accurate and fair. If you find an
error or other problem, please call the appropriate reporter at 608-252-6100;
the section editor; or Teryl Franklin, the managing editor, at 608-252-6117.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                      The Woodinville Weekly (Washington)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                November 4, 2013

EvergreenHealth recognized among best hospitals in the nation by Healthgrades

BYLINE: The Woodinville Weekly staff

LENGTH: 446  words


EvergreenHealth recently announced it has earned several distinctions for 2014
across many of the health care system's specialties from Healthgrades, the
nation's leading independent provider of information to help consumers make
informed decisions about a physician or hospital.

Among the 2014 accolades, Healthgrades named EvergreenHealth one of "America's
100 Best Hospitals" in three specialty areas - pulmonary care, gastrointestinal
care and general surgery.

This places EvergreenHealth among the top 5 percent of hospitals in the nation
for clinical excellence in each of those specialties.

To determine the rankings, Healthgrades evaluated nearly 4,500 hospitals
nationwide for 31 of the most common inpatient procedures and conditions and
identified the 100 best hospitals within each procedure. The ranking were
released today in American Hospital Quality Outcomes 2014: Healthgrades Report
to the Nation.

"Delivering the highest level of quality care and service to our patients and
their families is at the very heart of everything we do," said EvergreenHealth
CEO Robert Malte. "Recognitions like this underscore that commitment to our
community, and it's the hard work of each physician, provider, nurse, staff
person and volunteer that helps us achieve excellence in these and many other
specialties and practices across the organization."

In addition, EvergreenHealth is also among the top 10 percent of hospitals in
the nation for the treatment of stroke for the fifth consecutive year.
EvergreenHealth's stroke care has earned an Excellence Award and 5-star rating
from Healthgrades each year since 2010. A 5-star rating indicates the hospital
consistently helps patients achieve better-than-expected outcomes.

Other 2014 5-star rankings, which place EvergreenHealth in the top 15 percent of
hospitals in the nation, include recognition for treatment of heart failure,
pneumonia and sepsis; and for gastrointestinal care such as treatment of GI
bleed and pancreatitis and for both colorectal surgery and appendectomy
procedures.

According to Healthgrades, if all hospitals had performed similarly from 2010 to
2012 to hospitals receiving 5 stars, on average 234,252 lives could potentially
have been saved and 157,418 complications could potentially have been avoided.

EvergreenHealth strategic partner Virginia Mason Medical Center was also
recognized for quality care by Healthgrades, earning both the "America's 100
Best Hospitals" designation and Excellence Awards for cardiac care, pulmonary
care, gastrointestinal care, critical care and general surgery, in addition to
an Excellence Award for stroke care.

For more information visit www.evergreenhealth.com/quality.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Health

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WVW

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2013 The Woodinville Weekly

                              449 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

UCSF and Stanford in top 20 in US News hospital rankings

BYLINE: Lisa M. Krieger

LENGTH: 379 words



HIGHLIGHT: Of hospitals in California, three stood out: UCSF, UCLA Medical
Center and Stanford.  All were nationally ranked in nine to 15 specialties.


The Bay Area has two of the top ten medical institutions in the nation,
according to the US News & World Reports 2017-2018 Best Hospitals survey.

UCSF Medical Center ranks fifth and Stanford Health Care-Stanford Hospital ranks
ninth, according to the popular accolade, released Tuesday.

An increasing number of organizations, such as Consumer Reports and the federal
governments Medicare and Medicaid Services, evaluate hospitals on a broad array
of data-driven measures.           Beloved doctor, 92, closes decades-old
practice, ends era of old-fashioned house calls

First human embryo editing experiment in U.S. corrects gene for heart condition

Stanford research: Autism linked to imbalance in how brain cells chat

Dolores Huerta: Voter-approved death with dignity laws threatened by Congress

UC Berkeley fights back over epic loss in CRISPR verdict

But hospitals take great pride in reaching the top of the annual US News & World
Report ranking, which names 20 hospitals the publisher believes deliver
exceptional treatment in multiple areas of specialized, high-complexity
inpatient care.

In addition to UCSF and Stanford, the top ten hospitals in the nation were Mayo
Clinic, Cleveland Clinic, Johns Hopkins, Massachusetts General, University of
Michigan, UCLA Medical Center, New York-Presbyterian and University of
Pennsylvania.

Of hospitals in California, three stood out: UCSF, UCLA Medical Center and
Stanford.  All were nationally ranked in nine to 15 specialties.

In the South Bay, these were the three leaders: Stanford, El Camino Hospital in
Mountain View and Kaiser Permanente in Santa Clara.

In San Francisco and the East Bay, the three leaders were: UCSF and John Muir
Medical Centers in Walnut Creek and Concord.

In a separate set of pediatric rankings, UCSF Benioff Childrens Hospitals, with
locations in Oakland and San Francisco, placed among the nations premier
childrens hospitals in nine pediatric specialties and was first in Northern
California in five of those: cancer, diabetes and endocrinology, neonatology,
neurology and neurosurgery, and urology.

To read the details of the survey, which also ranks hospitals by specialty and
procedure, go to: http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday
                              WED REGIONAL Edition

hospitals ranked, with CU Hospital, Children's at top

BYLINE: Electa Draper

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 240 words


University of Colorado Hospital and Children's Hospital Colorado, both in
Aurora, were ranked the state's best hospital and best children's hospital in
U.S. News & World Report's annual rankings released Tuesday.

Both hospitals are nationally ranked in nine specialty areas.

CU Hospital achieved a No. 2 national ranking, shared with National Jewish
Health, in pulmonology. It was ranked 15th in cancer, 18th in nephrology and
19th in gynecology. It was ranked among the top 50 in diabetes and
endocrinology; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; neurology and
neurosurgery; and orthopedics.

Children's Hospital Colorado ranked fourth nationally among pediatric hospitals
in two areas, diabetes/endocrinology and neonatology; fifth in pulmonology;
seventh in orthopedics; ninth in cancer; 10th in gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery; 14th in neurology and neurosurgery; 16th in cardiology
and heart surgery; and, 22nd in urology.

The magazine's picks for Colorado's top hospitals in 2014 15:

* University of Colorado Hospital.

* Porter Adventist Hospital in Denver, ranked 50th nationally in orthopedics.

* Craig Hospital in Englewood, ranked seventh nationally in rehabilitation.

* Medical Center of Aurora.

* Rose Medical Center in Denver.

* Denver Health Medical Center.

* Parker Adventist Hospital.

* Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center in Denver.

* Sky Ridge Medical Center in Lone Tree.

* Exempla St. Joseph Hospital in Denver.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           January 21, 2016 Thursday

Tuen Mun Hospital worst in surgery;
Improvements demanded as ratio of unexpected deaths after operations worsens
after the facility demonstrated headway in the previous year

BYLINE: Elizabeth Cheung

SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/NEWS/CITY; nws city front.pgl; Health; Pg.1

LENGTH: 464 words


Tuen Mun Hospital ranked worst among all public hospitals for the sixth time in
surgical performances, with the highest ratio of unexpected deaths after
surgery.

In the Hospital Authority's latest report on surgical performances, the hospital
in Tuen Mun had the highest ratio of fatalities for scheduled operations at
2.202 - meaning the actual number of deaths was a little more than double the
number of patients expected to die after surgery.

Princess Margaret Hospital in Kwai Chung performed the worst in emergency
operations, with a fatality ratio of 1.48.

Of the 13 hospitals doing emergency operations, Ruttonjee Hospital was
considered the best with a fatality ratio of 0.298. For scheduled operations,
there were 17 hospitals ranked in the survey, of which Tuen Mun was the worst.

"The report was not a ranking, but just [a way] to evaluate the performance of
individual hospitals and look for improvement for less satisfactory hospitals,"
said Professor Paul Lai Bo-san, director of the authority's surgical outcomes
monitoring and improvement programme.

The report, which recorded around 25,000 surgeries between July 1, 2014 and June
30 last year, measured surgical performance by a ratio of actual fatalities over
expected number of deaths.

Lai said no reasons were found by data analysis to explain the two hospitals'
poor performances.

However, he believed taking in extra patients for vascular surgeries could
explain the problem at Princess Margaret Hospital.

Lai said that in the past two years some patients who were originally scheduled
at other hospitals within the Kowloon West cluster were transferred to Princess
Margaret Hospital.

While Tuen Mun Hospital showed improvement in 2013-2014 after ranking last for
five consecutive years since monitoring started in 2008, Lai said experts were
surprised that the hospital had scored worse this year.

"Our targeted measures were once effective," said Lai. "The result was a bit
surprising to our expert panel."

Dr Lee Tsz-leung, the authority's chief manager for quality and standards, said
further support would be provided for vascular surgeries at Princess Margaret
Hospital. Another vascular surgeon had been added to the hospital to enhance
service.

To meet growing demand in New Territories West, Pok Oi Hospital in Yuen Long
would add 15 sessions of operations each week this year. Six more sessions would
be added the following year to relieve the burden at Tuen Mun.

Tsang Kin-ping, vice-chairman of Hong Kong Patients' Voices, said the authority
should take more aggressive action to improve performance at Tuen Mun.

"Measures in the past few years might not have addressed the issues in New
Territories West," said Tsang. "If the low ranking were to repeat, not only
services but staff morale would be affected too."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      January 21, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Methodist Hospital: FORTUNE Ranks Houston Methodist among '100 Best Companies to
Work for' 2014

LENGTH: 315  words


New Delhi, Jan. 21 -- For the ninth year in a row, Houston Methodist has been
ranked on FORTUNE magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" list, remaining
the only hospital system ranked in Texas.



Houston Methodist ranks No. 46 on the 2014 list, moving up 21 spots from last
year. Houston Methodist is one of five Houston companies to receive the
prestigious distinction, and one of 12 Texas companies on the list. Among the
other U.S. companies listed, Methodist ranked No. 4 for the percentage of
minorities employed. "Our employees and physicians make it possible to be
honored as one of the best companies to work for in America for nine consecutive
years," said Marc Boom, M.D., president and CEO of Houston Methodist. "Houston
Methodist is a great place to work because of our employees' complete and
selfless dedication to our patients and to our values."

Houston Methodist, which includes a flagship teaching hospital, four community
hospitals and a top-ranked research institute, was awarded the ranking for
providing an exemplary workplace for employees.

Houston Methodist was selected based primarily on a confidential survey sent to
randomly selected employees, who were asked questions on the level of trust,
pride and camaraderie within their workplace.

Houston Methodist also submitted documentation about its work environment, from
benefits to corporate policies to employee demographics. Houston Methodist
offers competitive benefits, diversity in the workforce, recognition for
employees and a unique environment focused on integrity, compassion,
accountability, respect and excellence.

Houston Methodist Hospital is consistently ranked by U.S. News & World Report as
one of America's best hospitals, ranking in 12 of 16 adult specialties for 2013,
the most in the state. Houston Methodist Hospital also was ranked by the
magazine as the No.1 hospital in Houston and in Texas.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                       May 15, 2005 Sunday, FINAL Edition

Hospitals taking notice of BIW's rankings;
The company aims to improve quality of care and reduce costs for its 16,000
workers and dependents.

BYLINE: Matt Wickenheiser staff writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1451 words



During the next few weeks, about 16,000 Bath Iron Works employees and their
dependents will get a report card from the company ranking local hospitals on
subjects ranging from in-patient costs to infection control.

BIW officials said this is the second year they have put out such a ranking, and
they hope it will help their workers and dependents become savvy health-care
consumers. They also hope it pushes hospitals to improve to better serve their
workers.

In a bottom-line way, having employees healthy and working rather than living
through an extended hospital stay due to medical errors makes good business
sense.

"Our attempt with the report card on the hospital side is to encourage them to
improve, and we've had some good response from them," said Kevin P. Gildart,
vice president of human resources at BIW. "It's worked really well. What I've
been most encouraged by is the hospitals' behavior."

Leveraging a 16,000-strong population of health consumers ensures that southern
Maine hospitals have to pay attention.

"It clearly has the potential of changing referral patterns almost overnight,"
said Dr. George L. Higgins III, chief medical officer and vice president for
medical affairs at Maine Medical Center in Portland. "These report cards are
making us do the hard work in making sure that we're delivering on what they
want."

Hospital officials said they support the idea of educating consumers about their
health-care choices, but the officials also noted that a static report card has
limitations. Some of the data is old and some is not validated and is based on
self-reported surveys.

In some cases, the data - which BIW took from independent state and national
groups that specialize in examining hospitals - tell only part of the story.

Still, the effort is a move in the right direction, hospital officials said.

"It is very early in the evolution of how to present this and what it means,"
said Dr. Stephen Sears, chief medical officer at MaineGeneral Medical Center,
which has hospitals in Augusta and Waterville. "I think we're moving into an era
where we expect transparency. I don't think it is going to go away, I would
think and hope we find methods to improve the information so it's a valid
reflection and people can use it to make informed decisions.

"I don't think we're there yet."

The concept of transparency in hospitals is a hot topic in the industry, said
Higgins. Consumers want to be better informed about their hospitals before they
go in for non-emergency care. That information can be particularly helpful in an
area like southern Maine, where consumers have a number of hospitals to choose
from that are geographically convenient.

A number of groups provide information online, but consumers would have to work
their way through Web sites to collate a complete picture.

What BIW has done is synthesize information from several of these groups,
including the Maine Health Management Coalition, The Leapfrog Group and the
Maine Hospital Association. The resulting four-page copy isn't only a physical
scorecard anyone can use; it has extensive narrative about where the information
came from, how to interpret it and why it is important.

Businesses have done similar projects in other states, but it's believed to be
the first in Maine. Other companies, like Hannaford, are moving in similar
directions and have Web-based offerings akin to what BIW did, Gildart said.

As in almost every business, health care is one of the single most significant
costs for BIW. The idea of the report card grew out of work that BIW, in
conjunction with labor representatives, began about five years ago.

"I was convinced early on that the kind of saber rattling around premium costs
really wasn't the issue," Gildart said. "You have to get past the insurance
piece of it and start paying attention to what's really going on in the
health-care arena and look at the behavior of all the parties."

"Quality was what we were going to drive," he said. "If you can improve quality,
other things start to fall in place, like cost, etc."

BIW officials began meeting with hospital executives several years ago to
discuss expectations - what a major employer wants from a health-care provider.
On the report card, the company also points to other reasons why it undertook
the project:

A 1999 study from the Institute of Medicine estimated that each year up to
98,000 people nationwide die from preventable medical errors in hospitals.

In 2004, Maine hospitals reported 15 deaths due to medical errors.

It's logical that BIW should have expectations of hospitals, said Higgins. The
company expects its employees to take part in wellness programs, quit smoking
and do other things to improve their health, he noted, and expects hospitals to
provide great care by physicians with cutting-edge skills.

"I can't argue with any of those," he said.

BIW's report card ranked eight hospitals. Maine Med topped the list,
MaineGeneral was toward the bottom. Gildart suggested that the overall rankings
of the hospital didn't matter much; some hospitals received lower ratings in
certain areas because they choose to specialize in niche services and not in
areas that the rating groups place more importance on. And, said both Higgins
and Sears, the numbers don't necessarily tell the whole story.

Information on the card from the Maine Hospital Association ranks patient
satisfaction surveys and evaluates treatment patients got for heart attacks and
heart failures, said Sears. That information, which is outcome-based, is a valid
measurement, he said.

Less valid, in his opinion, are rankings from the Maine Health Management
Coalition because it evaluated processes (not outcomes), and information was
collected through hospital surveys and was not validated.

And, he said, the information is stale - at least a year old.

"I would venture if we filled out that survey now we would score significantly
better. That part of it is probably the oldest of the data on there," said
Sears.

Higgins noted that Maine Med didn't receive a perfect score in the heart failure
ranking. The MHA looks at seven elements, and one of them has to do with having
an effective smoking cessation counseling program for patients. That hasn't been
a priority for Maine Med, said Higgins, so the hospital's score is ticked.

In data from The Leapfrog Group, Maine Med wasn't ranked perfectly because it
had a less-than-average number of surgeries done for pancreatic cancer. But the
reason the hospital does less is because it has some very expert
gastroenterologists who have perfected procedures that eliminate the need for
the surgeries, he said.

"It is confusing, isn't it? You look at something that's not a full pie and say
OGee, I'm a little concerned,' " said Higgins, referring to the pie-shaped icons
on the chart.  "We have to accept the fact that there are some imperfections. We
all want to be an A-student; the fact is if you look at the BIW score card,
Maine Medical Center has done well, but there's opportunities to improve."

Higgins said Maine Med will have to further develop its on-line connectivity
with its potential patients. As consumers consider the hospital for a procedure,
the Web site can have full information about the staff, the operation,
statistics, and other data. In that way, he said, the sometimes-partial story
told by various surveys and rankings would be fleshed out.

Gildart said the card wasn't meant to be an "infallible measurement." Also, he
said, it is likely to change over time as more information becomes available,
and as hospitals and ranking organizations have further dialogue regarding
what's fair and important information to study.

"If this, limited as it may be, gets people to ask questions and providers to
recognize that they need to do something in this area, encouraging that dialogue
between a patient and a provider is exactly what it is supposed to be about,"
said BIW spokesman Dirk Lesko.

Lesko said measuring the monetary benefit of an initiative like this is
impossible, because predicting the cost of health care from one year to the next
is equally challenging.

But a program like this could show benefits 10 years down the road as overall
health-care quality in Maine rises, helping not only BIW's work force, but the
entire state.

"I think that this is the right direction. I think there's going to be a lag
between producing these very worthwhile and informative score cards and before
the general public becomes facile in using them, but it's exactly the right
direction to go," said Higgins.

Staff Writer Matt Wickenheiser can be contacted at 791-6316 or at:
mwickenheiser@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A detail of the report card BIW compiled from independent state and
national hospital examinations. It is intended to help the company's employees
and dependents make informed decisions about where to obtain the best health
care in southern Maine.
Staff photo by Herb Swanson
Molly Mitton, left, and Christine Cyr check charts at Maine Medical Center in
Portland, which came in at the top of BIW's rankings. "These report cards are
making us do the hard work in making sure that we're delivering on what they
want," said Dr. George L. Higgins III, chief medical officer and vice president
for medical affairs at Maine Med.

                 Copyright 2005 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.

                              454 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                       May 15, 2005 Sunday, FINAL Edition

Hospitals taking notice of BIW's rankings;
The company aims to improve quality of care and reduce costs for its 16,000
workers and dependents.

BYLINE: Matt Wickenheiser staff writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1451 words



During the next few weeks, about 16,000 Bath Iron Works employees and their
dependents will get a report card from the company ranking local hospitals on
subjects ranging from in-patient costs to infection control.

BIW officials said this is the second year they have put out such a ranking, and
they hope it will help their workers and dependents become savvy health-care
consumers. They also hope it pushes hospitals to improve to better serve their
workers.

In a bottom-line way, having employees healthy and working rather than living
through an extended hospital stay due to medical errors makes good business
sense.

"Our attempt with the report card on the hospital side is to encourage them to
improve, and we've had some good response from them," said Kevin P. Gildart,
vice president of human resources at BIW. "It's worked really well. What I've
been most encouraged by is the hospitals' behavior."

Leveraging a 16,000-strong population of health consumers ensures that southern
Maine hospitals have to pay attention.

"It clearly has the potential of changing referral patterns almost overnight,"
said Dr. George L. Higgins III, chief medical officer and vice president for
medical affairs at Maine Medical Center in Portland. "These report cards are
making us do the hard work in making sure that we're delivering on what they
want."

Hospital officials said they support the idea of educating consumers about their
health-care choices, but the officials also noted that a static report card has
limitations. Some of the data is old and some is not validated and is based on
self-reported surveys.

In some cases, the data - which BIW took from independent state and national
groups that specialize in examining hospitals - tell only part of the story.

Still, the effort is a move in the right direction, hospital officials said.

"It is very early in the evolution of how to present this and what it means,"
said Dr. Stephen Sears, chief medical officer at MaineGeneral Medical Center,
which has hospitals in Augusta and Waterville. "I think we're moving into an era
where we expect transparency. I don't think it is going to go away, I would
think and hope we find methods to improve the information so it's a valid
reflection and people can use it to make informed decisions.

"I don't think we're there yet."

The concept of transparency in hospitals is a hot topic in the industry, said
Higgins. Consumers want to be better informed about their hospitals before they
go in for non-emergency care. That information can be particularly helpful in an
area like southern Maine, where consumers have a number of hospitals to choose
from that are geographically convenient.

A number of groups provide information online, but consumers would have to work
their way through Web sites to collate a complete picture.

What BIW has done is synthesize information from several of these groups,
including the Maine Health Management Coalition, The Leapfrog Group and the
Maine Hospital Association. The resulting four-page copy isn't only a physical
scorecard anyone can use; it has extensive narrative about where the information
came from, how to interpret it and why it is important.

Businesses have done similar projects in other states, but it's believed to be
the first in Maine. Other companies, like Hannaford, are moving in similar
directions and have Web-based offerings akin to what BIW did, Gildart said.

As in almost every business, health care is one of the single most significant
costs for BIW. The idea of the report card grew out of work that BIW, in
conjunction with labor representatives, began about five years ago.

"I was convinced early on that the kind of saber rattling around premium costs
really wasn't the issue," Gildart said. "You have to get past the insurance
piece of it and start paying attention to what's really going on in the
health-care arena and look at the behavior of all the parties."

"Quality was what we were going to drive," he said. "If you can improve quality,
other things start to fall in place, like cost, etc."

BIW officials began meeting with hospital executives several years ago to
discuss expectations - what a major employer wants from a health-care provider.
On the report card, the company also points to other reasons why it undertook
the project:

A 1999 study from the Institute of Medicine estimated that each year up to
98,000 people nationwide die from preventable medical errors in hospitals.

In 2004, Maine hospitals reported 15 deaths due to medical errors.

It's logical that BIW should have expectations of hospitals, said Higgins. The
company expects its employees to take part in wellness programs, quit smoking
and do other things to improve their health, he noted, and expects hospitals to
provide great care by physicians with cutting-edge skills.

"I can't argue with any of those," he said.

BIW's report card ranked eight hospitals. Maine Med topped the list,
MaineGeneral was toward the bottom. Gildart suggested that the overall rankings
of the hospital didn't matter much; some hospitals received lower ratings in
certain areas because they choose to specialize in niche services and not in
areas that the rating groups place more importance on. And, said both Higgins
and Sears, the numbers don't necessarily tell the whole story.

Information on the card from the Maine Hospital Association ranks patient
satisfaction surveys and evaluates treatment patients got for heart attacks and
heart failures, said Sears. That information, which is outcome-based, is a valid
measurement, he said.

Less valid, in his opinion, are rankings from the Maine Health Management
Coalition because it evaluated processes (not outcomes), and information was
collected through hospital surveys and was not validated.

And, he said, the information is stale - at least a year old.

"I would venture if we filled out that survey now we would score significantly
better. That part of it is probably the oldest of the data on there," said
Sears.

Higgins noted that Maine Med didn't receive a perfect score in the heart failure
ranking. The MHA looks at seven elements, and one of them has to do with having
an effective smoking cessation counseling program for patients. That hasn't been
a priority for Maine Med, said Higgins, so the hospital's score is ticked.

In data from The Leapfrog Group, Maine Med wasn't ranked perfectly because it
had a less-than-average number of surgeries done for pancreatic cancer. But the
reason the hospital does less is because it has some very expert
gastroenterologists who have perfected procedures that eliminate the need for
the surgeries, he said.

"It is confusing, isn't it? You look at something that's not a full pie and say
OGee, I'm a little concerned,' " said Higgins, referring to the pie-shaped icons
on the chart.  "We have to accept the fact that there are some imperfections. We
all want to be an A-student; the fact is if you look at the BIW score card,
Maine Medical Center has done well, but there's opportunities to improve."

Higgins said Maine Med will have to further develop its on-line connectivity
with its potential patients. As consumers consider the hospital for a procedure,
the Web site can have full information about the staff, the operation,
statistics, and other data. In that way, he said, the sometimes-partial story
told by various surveys and rankings would be fleshed out.

Gildart said the card wasn't meant to be an "infallible measurement." Also, he
said, it is likely to change over time as more information becomes available,
and as hospitals and ranking organizations have further dialogue regarding
what's fair and important information to study.

"If this, limited as it may be, gets people to ask questions and providers to
recognize that they need to do something in this area, encouraging that dialogue
between a patient and a provider is exactly what it is supposed to be about,"
said BIW spokesman Dirk Lesko.

Lesko said measuring the monetary benefit of an initiative like this is
impossible, because predicting the cost of health care from one year to the next
is equally challenging.

But a program like this could show benefits 10 years down the road as overall
health-care quality in Maine rises, helping not only BIW's work force, but the
entire state.

"I think that this is the right direction. I think there's going to be a lag
between producing these very worthwhile and informative score cards and before
the general public becomes facile in using them, but it's exactly the right
direction to go," said Higgins.

Staff Writer Matt Wickenheiser can be contacted at 791-6316 or at:
mwickenheiser@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A detail of the report card BIW compiled from independent state and
national hospital examinations. It is intended to help the company's employees
and dependents make informed decisions about where to obtain the best health
care in southern Maine.
Staff photo by Herb Swanson
Molly Mitton, left, and Christine Cyr check charts at Maine Medical Center in
Portland, which came in at the top of BIW's rankings. "These report cards are
making us do the hard work in making sure that we're delivering on what they
want," said Dr. George L. Higgins III, chief medical officer and vice president
for medical affairs at Maine Med.

                 Copyright 2005 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.

                              455 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              June 1, 2012 Friday
                                  City Edition

Schools wrestle lack of rural doctors

BYLINE: SILAS ALLEN, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS METRO/STATE; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 722 words


Officials at Oklahoma's two medical schools are moving forward with a plan they
hope will combat a shortage of doctors in rural Oklahoma.

The Oklahoma Hospital Residency Training Program Act provides just over $3
million to create residency programs at hospitals in rural, underserved areas
across the state.

The bill passed out of the Oklahoma Senate in the final hours of the 2012
legislative session, which ended May 25.

Under the program, the Oklahoma Health Care Authority would contract with the
Oklahoma State University College of Osteopathic Medicine in Tulsa and the
University of Oklahoma College of Medicine in Oklahoma City to establish and run
new residency programs in medically underserved areas.

Oklahoma Health Care Authority spokesman Carter Kimble said the authority is
still working out how the program will be implemented.

Although those details are still being worked out, Howard Barnett, president of
OSU-Tulsa and the OSU Center for Health Sciences said the university is already
in discussions with a few rural hospitals that are interested in participating
in the program.

Barnett said he wouldn't name the hospitals that have expressed interest until
those discussions are finalized, but he said most of them are located in towns
with populations of about 25,000.

The university also has begun to recruit students who are interested in working
in rural Oklahoma. Kayse Shrum, dean of the College of Osteopathic Medicine,
said she's been speaking to high school FFA teachers and CareerTech instructors
about guiding interested students toward a career in medicine.

The college also is establishing early-admittance programs with regional
universities around the state. Under those programs, students could be granted
conditional admission to medical school as college sophomores, provided they
maintain certain standards.

Recruiting students who come from rural areas originally is important, she said,
since they tend to be more inclined to return to rural Oklahoma to practice once
they graduate.

"We can make a significant impact and solve the problem we've had in the past in
Oklahoma," Shrum said.

A serious problem

The rural doctor shortage already appears to be taking its toll. America's
Health Rankings for 2011 place Oklahoma at No. 48, two spots lower than the
previous year's rankings. Only Mississippi and Louisiana fell behind Oklahoma in
the rankings, which are released annually by the United Health Foundation.

The rankings cite a high prevalence of smoking and obesity, limited availability
of primary care doctors and low use of prenatal care for the low ranking.

A New England Journal of Medicine article ranks Oklahoma as the state that faces
the most challenges in meeting medical needs. That ranking is based on the ratio
of Medicaid expansion to primary care capacity.

According to the article, Oklahoma is expected to see a large expansion in the
Medicaid population as the federal health care law takes effect. But Oklahoma
doesn't have the primary care capacity to deal with those newly insured
patients. Without outside efforts, the demand for medical care could outstrip
the supply of providers in the state.

Special challenges

Although those issues are daunting, the new program will go a long way toward
combating them, said Patti Davis, executive vice president of the Oklahoma
Hospital Association.

Davis, a former rural hospital administrator, said hospitals in rural areas face
certain challenges that their urban counterparts don't see. Doctors in rural
hospitals face tougher call schedules, simply because their staffs are smaller.
Doctors' spouses may also face limited employment opportunities in rural areas,
she said.

All those factors make it more difficult for hospitals in rural areas to attract
doctors, she said. As a result, rural Oklahoma sees its physician population
shrinking, even as graduates from its medical schools leave the state for their
residencies.

By exposing students to rural Oklahoma during medical school and bringing them
to rural hospitals for residencies, Davis said, the program will help make them
more aware of the opportunities there. That could mean the difference between
sending doctors to rural Oklahoma or to other states.

"We've already spent a lot of money educating these people. We need to keep them
in Oklahoma," she said.


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEWS IN BRIEF

BYLINE: A staff report

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 427 words


Hospital ranked among top 50

Tampa General Hospital has been ranked as one of the country's top 50 hospitals
in six medical specialties in U.S. News & World Report's 2010-11 Best Hospitals.

The specialties include diabetes and endocrinology, geriatrics, heart and heart
surgery, kidney disorders, orthopedics and urology. The rankings are available
at www.usnews.com/best hospitals and are featured in the magazine's August
printed issue.

Ron Hytoff, president and CEO of Tampa General, said the rankings are a
collaborative effort of the hospital's staff, the University of South Florida
College of Medicine and community medical providers.

"Quality patient care is a product of this teamwork," Hytoff said. "When you
have doctors working hand-in-hand with nurses and other clinical specialists,
you provide better outcomes for sick patients."

Holy Names hires director

The Academy of the Holy Names has named Kevin Vargas its new athletic director.

Vargas was athletic director and a physical education teacher at Corpus Christi
Catholic School.

At Corpus Christi, Vargas was instrumental in the creation and implementation of
rules and procedures in the athletic handbook, interviewed and hired coaches,and
maintained the athletic budget. He also was the summer camp director at Mary
Help of Christians summer camp.

Vargas is a graduate of Jesuit High School and the University of Florida.

"We at the Academy are excited to have Kevin join us as athletic director and
look forward to continued high standards of academic and athletic excellence,"
said Principal Camille Jowanna.

Free coupon seminar offers tips on saving

Discover a new way to save money with coupons.

TrueCouponing.com will offer a seminar on cutting your grocery bill by more than
70 percent at 6 p.m. Aug. 20 at the Salvation Army Community Worship Center,
1100 W. Sligh Ave.

For details, call (813) 549-5285.

Real estate investors meet

The Suncoast Real Estate Investors Association hosts its next First Steps to
Success networking meeting at 6 p.m. Aug. 19 at the DoubleTree Hotel, 4500 W.
Cypress St.

Guest speaker Maria Hayden presents "Get Past The Fear - Get to the Deal."

When real estate prices dropped, Hayden said she wanted to start buying but she
had qualms that paralyzed her. She overcame her fear and built confidence with
each small success.

The presentation is free to members; guests are $20, or they can become a member
at the door. For details, call (813) 287-1515.

A staff report

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company

                              457 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                          Sunday Times (South Africa)

                                November 7, 2004

Bill may curb private healthcare

BYLINE: Adele Shevel

SECTION: Economy, Business & Finance; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 374 words




Hospitals could be coming to the end of their strong run

ADELE SHEVEL

THE big three private hospital groups, accused by the government of making
"super profits", are again highly ranked in the Top 100 Companies.

This year the three - Netcare, Afrox Healthcare and Medi-Clinic - rank in the
top 20 performers in terms of returns to shareholders over five years. Last year
they were among the top 15.

But hospitals may be coming to the end of their strong run, given the regulatory
pressure that could reduce their huge earnings.

The National Health Bill, which has been signed by President Thabo Mbeki, is
aimed at regulating the services of private healthcare.

This includes the issuing of "certificates of need", which will require doctors
and healthcare facilities such as private hospitals to apply for permission to
practise in a specific area. Hospitals are particularly vulnerable because of
the high levels of investment required to set up and run their operations.

Pressure is also coming from medical schemes and their administrators, which are
looking at ways to counter the power of private hospital groups.

The Council for Medical Schemes, the body that regulates medical schemes, says
the private hospital market is highly concentrated.

The council's view is that medical schemes need to offer a consistent set of
benefits to members.

The hospitals have the power to put forward increases which medical schemes
don't have the power to counter. If schemes refuse to accommodate the demands of
hospitals, the hospitals have the power to make members pay out-of-pocket. This
leaves members irate with the medical schemes.

The local private-hospital industry has a captive local market, with no sign of
other competition. Growth options being pursued include offshore acquisitions,
expansion and upgrading of existing local facilities and public-private
partnerships.

*Government intervention in private healthcare is gaining momentum. Legislation
was passed recently to make drugs more affordable and promote the use of generic
equivalents. The medical-schemes industry is more regulated to prevent it from
discriminating against "high-risk " individuals - the aged and the sick.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                       Copyright 2004 Times Media Limited

                              458 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday

Revealing hospital mortality rankings: Will it lead to better health care?

SECTION: IDEAS; Pg. ID02

LENGTH: 487 words


Publishing the rankings can lead to better care for the individual because a
choice can be made based on that information. In my opinion, the medical system
keeps the patients in the dark about the simplest things like it is a holy inner
sanctum and the peasants are not worthy of the information. Patients, in being
able to choose which hospital they wish to be admitted to, can improve their
chances of survival.

Carol Edger-Magill, Georgetown

It is unfair to look at a hospital without looking at the health stats for the
area it serves (which may have quite different demographics than other areas/
hospitals - and health stats generally are different for different demographic
groups). In addition, some hospitals specialize in "higher-risk" traumas and
some do not even have emergency services. Publishing stats comparatively for all
hospitals, without categorizing the hospitals into sub-groups, can lead to
unwarranted public concern and actually cause people to try to avoid certain
hospitals.

Bob Brewer, Oakville

With this kind of publicly available information, hospitals now have no choice
but to enact new policies and practices so that the next time the rankings are
revealed, they will be seen in a better light. Most disturbing is the lack of
information from Humber River Regional Hospitals. Will this also lead to more
people avoiding lower-ranked hospitals? I hope that it will not place a burden
on those hospitals that did well.

Sandra Brawley, Toronto

Publishing mortality ratings of hospitals will make the public more aware that
our health-care system is not infallible. This might empower people to ask
questions of their health-care providers. It may also force hospital
administrators to be more diligent in providing ongoing training for their
staffs.

Deborah Kennedy, Innisfil

While I applaud the government for making the mortality rates in the various
hospitals more transparent, there are two cautions here: (1) Not all hospitals
are the same. Sunnybrook hospital, for example, is a level 3 trauma hospital,
and many badly injured patients do not survive. Trauma hospitals will have a
higher mortality rate than other hospitals of similar size. (2) Statistical
clumping can happen at any time, so the mortality rates will have to be looked
over a long period to be of value.

Don Philip, Burlington

My biggest concern is that this will not so much improve hospital care as it
will drive administrators to suppress information for fear of civil litigation.

Susan Cain, Brampton

Hospitals rated as not so good, are all local hospitals. I think looking into
the populations that use these hospitals might be a fairer approach. Do the
measurements take into account the average ages of patients within a year at a
particular hospital? Lengths of stay? I think some hospitals might be
stigmatized, without all pertinent statistics being revealed: like the
demographics of a community.

Michael Sullivan,

Toronto

.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2007 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.

                              459 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                               May 6, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ontario eyes name/shame hospital ranking; Similar scheme has been used in
Britain, but not without difficulties

BYLINE: Pauline Tam, Postmedia News, With A File From Andrea Woo, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 701  words


The Ontario government is considering a provincewide ranking system for
hospitals that would provide information that would allow patients to compare
hospitals, reward hospitals for good performance and identify poor performers.

The "name-and-shame" scheme, designed to give patients a clearer picture of
service quality, would be modelled after a short-lived one in Britain, which was
shown to have improved hospital standards, according to documents obtained by
the Ottawa Citizen.

No such scheme is under consideration in B.C., according to Ministry of Health
spokeswoman Michelle Stewart.

"In short, the Ministry of Health is not actively developing or contemplating a
hospital report card," Stewart said. "Health authorities do an annual report on
their service plans and provide a variety of other performance indicators on
their public websites."

Under the proposed Ontario system, hospitals would be given a rating of up to
three stars for their performance in areas such as treating patients safely and
effectively, reducing surgical and emergencyroom waits and improving
cleanliness.

Another system under consideration would simply rate hospitals "excellent,"
"good," "fair" or "weak," according to documents released under
freedomof-information laws.

The merits and pitfalls of a star-rating system were discussed in 2009 by a
panel of 13 experts advising the Health Ministry. However, it's not clear if the
government has adopted the idea.

In recent years, Ontario hospitals have gradually adopted ways of measuring
their own quality and making their leaders responsible for improving patient
care. Last month, new rules kicked in that linked a portion of executive pay to
how well hospitals took care of patients.

The new rules require the province's 154 hospitals to publicly post annual
reports detailing their progress in meeting a long list of "quality indicators,"
ranging from getting more staff to wash their hands when dealing with patients
to reducing rates of inhospital infections.

The Ontario government sees the new accountability rules as a way not only to
improve care and rein in executive salaries, but also to provide taxpayers with
a standardized way to compare hospitals and the care they deliver.

A ranking system would appear to be the next logical step.

It could also lay the groundwork for more sweeping changes to how hospitals are
funded, with the goal of rewarding those that are more efficient and treat
patients safely and effectively.

After Britain introduced a star-rating system in 2001, hospitals showed a
noticeable improvement in how well they cared for patients.

High-performing hospitals were rewarded with more funding and financial freedom
from the government, allowing them the right to borrow money and organize
services to meet local needs.

At facilities with few or no stars, corporate decisions were scrutinized more
closely, and executives were told they could lose their jobs if they didn't do
better.

A major downside was that the star-rating system did not take into account the
key measure of whether a hospital's finances were being managed well.

As a result, the system encouraged low-performing hospitals to spend their way
out of trouble, resulting in massive deficits.

The reports released to the Ottawa Citizen also indicated that some British
hospitals manipulated their data to look like they had improved standards when
they actually hadn't.

For example, to meet the target of a maximum four-hour wait for treatment in
emergency departments, some hospitals made patients wait in ambulances outside
the hospital until staff were confident they could be treated.

The reports concluded that services excluded from the ranking system tended to
be neglected by hospitals.

As a result, "a low rating in itself will not necessarily encourage
organizations to improve on areas where improvement may be needed if there is no
measurement in place for those areas."

In 2005, amid political and union opposition to the starrating system, the
British government scrapped the scheme in favour of a two-tiered system that
measured quality of patient care and use of resources.

Instead of stars, hospitals were given a rating on a fourpoint scale ranging
from excellent to weak.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ted Rhodes, Postmedia Files; While Ontario is considering using a
hospital ranking system, no such scheme is being looked at in B.C., the Ministry
of Health says.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday

Morning briefs

SECTION: Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 582 words


PSS WORLD MEDICAL LISTED ON NEW NASDAQ MARKET

Jacksonville-based PSS World Medical Inc. said Thursday its common stock has
been selected for inclusion on the new Nasdaq Global Select Market.

PSS, a medical distribution company, employs about 3,200 company-wide, more than
450 locally.

Nasdaq is the largest U.S. electronic stock market.

The Nasdaq Global Select Market has the highest initial listing standards of any
exchange in the world based on financial and liquidity requirements.

PSS, which had been listed on the Nasdaq National Market, will continue to trade
under the symbol "PSSI."

On July 3, Nasdaq-listed companies were reclassified under three listing tiers -
Nasdaq Global Select Market, Nasdaq Global Market, and Nasdaq Capital Market.
Nasdaq plans to launch indexes based on these new tiers.

Urvaksh Karkaria/The Times-Union

ST. VINCENT'S HONORED FOR HEART SPECIALTY

U.S. News & World Report named St. Vincent's Medical Center one of America's
Best Hospitals in the category of Heart and Heart Surgery in its 2006 rankings
released today.

St. Vincent's is the only Jacksonville hospital recognized this year for work in
any of the 16 specialties ranked by the magazine.

In the 2006 rankings, 50 medical centers are named as America's best in the
category of Heart and Heart Surgery.

St. Vincent's is ranked 47 and is one of only two Florida hospitals named among
the top 50. This is the third time St. Vincent's has been ranked among the
nation's finest heart hospitals.

The "America's Best Hospitals" rankings cover 16 specialties from cancer and
heart disease to pediatrics and urology.

Out of the 5,189 hospitals evaluated, only 176 scored high enough to be ranked
in any specialty.

Urvaksh Karkaria/The Times-Union

EBAY LOSES KEY EXECUTIVE; FACES STIFF COMPETITION

EBay Inc. faced a double blow Thursday as it announced a key executive's plans
to leave and an analyst said Google Inc.'s new online payment service represents
a bigger threat than expected to the Internet auction company's health.

Jeff Jordan, who most recently was president of eBay's PayPal payment business,
led eBay's North America division from 2000 to 2004 and had been presumed by
some analysts as the likely successor to Chief Executive Meg Whitman. He said in
an interview that he wants to spend more time with his wife and two children.

He will be replaced by Rajiv Dutta, who has been with the company since 1998,
serving as chief financial officer, head of strategy and president of Skype, the
Internet phone service eBay acquired last year.

The San Jose-based company's shares fell $1.51, to $26.85 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market

Associated Press

AOL CONSIDERS MORE FREE SERVICES

AOL LLC may give away even more of its services, including its vaunted AOL.com
e-mail accounts now limited to paying subscribers, to boost ad revenues and
offset declines in subscriptions, a person familiar with the talks said
Thursday.

One proposal under consideration among top AOL executives calls for Time Warner
Inc.'s online unit to stop charging subscription fees to users who have
high-speed Internet access or even dial-up service from a rival provider.

The person familiar with the talks said a major strategic review over the past
several months sought to identify additional ways to keep users within the AOL
family regardless of whether they want to keep paying monthly fees of as much as
$25.90 a month.

Under the planl, the company would continue to charge the fees for those needing
dial-up access through AOL.

Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Florida Times-Union

                              461 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            March 23, 2013 Saturday
                                  Mich Edition

BRIEFcase

BYLINE: TRIBUNE AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 470 words


SOUTH BEND

IUSB holds career, internship fair

The Indiana University South Bend Career and Internship Fair will be from 2 to 5
p.m. Wednesday, in the Student Activities Center, near the corner of Mishawaka
Avenue and 20th Street. More than 80 companies will be in attendance.

Active duty members of armed services and veterans are invited to the job fair
for an early visit from 1 to 2 p.m.

The fair is free and open to the public. Professional dress is required for
entrance.

For more information, visit iusb.edu/career-events/index.php.

SOUTH BEND

ND's Mendoza gains top ranking

The Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame took the No. 1
spot for the fourth year in a row in the just-released Bloomberg Businessweek
2013 "Best Undergraduate Business Schools" ranking.

Mendoza's undergraduate studies ranked first in student satisfaction and fifth
in employer satisfaction - the two main ranking criteria. The college also
earned scores of "A+" for teaching quality, facilities and services, and job
placement.

According to the article accompanying the ranking, students especially lauded
the college's well-rounded business curriculum, strong liberal arts bent and
focus on ethics.

To see the complete rankings, visit www.businessweek.com.

WEST LAFAYETTE, IND.

Purdue teams find new uses for crops

Two teams of Purdue University students have won top prizes for crop innovation
for creating fiber insulation from soybeans and fireworks casing from corn.

Purdue's student soybean and corn innovation contests challenge students to come
up with creative uses for the crops. Both teams received a $20,000 prize
Wednesday for their work.

One team produced Nature Loft, a soy protein fiber insulation that can be used
in bedding, apparel and other products. Another team created Sky Maize, a
biodegradable fireworks casing that is lighter and less expensive than products
currently on the market.

Second-place teams created water-soluble eyelid glue from soybeans and an
anti-fog glass-cleansing solution from corn.

KNOX

Leadership change at Starke Hospital

Jared Beasley has been named interim president of Indiana University Health
Starke Hospital to take the place of President David Hyatt, who is transferring
to a new position at Jay County Hospital in Portland, Ind.

Beasley has served as vice president of Clinical and Diagnostic Services of IU
Health La Porte Hospital since June 2012. Prior, he worked as the Emergency
Department director at partner IU Health Goshen Hospital for six years.

He received a bachelor's degree in nursing from Goshen College, a bachelor's
degree in economics and business administration from Manchester College and a
master's in business administration from Indiana University-Purdue University
Fort Wayne.

Hyatt was recently named CEO of Jay County Hospital in Portland.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Warrnambool Standard

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday

ST John of God Warrnambool hospital has been ranked

BYLINE: EVERARD HIMMELREICH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 307 words


ST John of God Warrnambool hospital has been ranked the best in Australia by
patients.

The hospital this year received the highest ranking of all participating
hospitals in a recent national survey of patient satisfaction, surpassing the
score it achieved last year when it was in the top group of Australian private
hospitals.

This year it scored highest in both the "all private hospitals" and "50-100 bed
hospital" categories, while ranking in the top percentile of all participating
hospitals for its overall inpatient satisfaction score.

The Press Ganey Survey was held from February through March, quantifying the
views of admitted patients on factors such as doctor and nursing care, admission
and discharge processes, meals and catering, facilities for visitors and
families and the standard of hospital rooms.

St John of God Warrnam-bool hospital chief executive officer Glen Power said the
outcome was a tremendous endorsement of the skill and professionalism, diligence
and dedication of all treating doctors and caregivers.

"Patients were extremely complimentary of the overall service standard, the
quality of the rooms and facilities, and most importantly the quality of the
care that they received while admitted," Dr Power said.

The top report card given by patients showed the hospital was delivering on its
core values such as compassion, hospitality and excellence, Dr Power said.

"The hospital provides a welcoming environment, with attentive staff who can
take all the time needed to aid in a patient's full recovery.

"Our hospital rooms are very private, generous in size, and offer a quiet
sanctuary for patients, their families and visitors.

"Our kitchen is also a fresh-cook kitchen that can meet special meal requests
for patients, which has contributed to the strong scores we have received."

ehimmelreich@fairfaxmedia.com.au

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Record-Eagle (Traverse City, Michigan)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday

Mixed diagnosis for Munson

BYLINE: Anne Stanton, The Record-Eagle, Traverse City, Mich.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words


Aug. 08--TRAVERSE CITY -- The most recent issue of Consumer Reports gave Munson
Medical Center its lowest rating for surgery, based on the percentage of people
who died in the hospital or stayed longer than expected for a given procedure.

Only four hospitals of 29 in Michigan earned the magazine's "worst" rating.

Yet Consumer Reports also gave Munson Medical Center a first place ranking in
the state for patient safety in its May issue. Its ranking was based on
infection, re-admission, complication and adverse effects data.

Consumer Reports used length of hospital stay in its ranking because research
shows a correlation with complications. But there are two sides to the coin,
said David McGreaham, a physician and Munson's vice president of medical
affairs.

"You don't want to get people out of the hospital before they are ready,"
McGreaham said. "But you don't want to stay in the hospital because it's a very
dangerous place to be with the potential for infections, and it's very
expensive. We're trying to walk that line and get people out at an appropriate
time. We looked at benchmark data, and we do have opportunities in certain
areas."

Munson has "challenges" with longer patient stays because it serves a large
rural area and deals with transportation and follow-up issues, he said.

Consumers Report also used patient mortality as a measure. Munson looked at its
benchmarks and is at or below expected number of deaths, McGreaham said.

"It's very confusing. If we look at surgical complications, we're better than
expected in the Medicare database," he said.

Consumers Report based its ranking on billing claims submitted to Medicare from
2009 to 2011 for patients 65 and older for 27 types of surgeries.

In a supplementary report, Munson received the "worst" rating for knee and hip
replacements. It received top scores for pain control and patient communication
with nurses and doctors.

McGreaham said Munson closely tracks medical databases and tries to learn from
them. On the other hand, he sees an increasing number of hospital quality
rankings, all based on different databases.

"We need to come together and develop a database for consumers that everyone can
understand that are based on metrics that are validated," he said.

This is Consumers Reports' first effort to compare how surgical patients fare in
2,400 U.S. hospitals. The magazine conceded in a press release that it used the
best data available, but could have used more comprehensive, standardized data.

"We know the ratings aren't a perfect measurement but we think they're an
important first step in giving patients the information they need to make an
informed choice," said John Santa, medical director of Consumer Reports Health.

Munson frequently has ranked as a "Top 100 Hospital" over two decades, but
consumers don't have access to the report's detailed findings. This year, Munson
didn't make it into the Top 100; the president of Munson Medical Center cited
length of patient stay as a factor.

McGreaham agreed with Consumers Report that patients would be wise to research
their medical options. He recommended checking out a surgeon's reputation and
depth of experience, along with talking to their physician. A hospital's
reputation also comes into play if a type of surgery is rarely done there.

"That makes it a little riskier," he said.

He also believes Munson needs to play a role by providing transparent medical
data.

"We're moving in that direction, and we're not quite there yet," he said.

___ (c)2013 The Record-Eagle (Traverse City, Mich.) Visit The Record-Eagle
(Traverse City, Mich.) at record-eagle.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130808-ZK-Mixed-diagnosis-for-Munson-0808-20130808

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZK


                        Copyright 2013 The Record-Eagle

                              464 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            January 7, 2016 Thursday

Advocate Lutheran's orthopedic program ranked in top 100

BYLINE: Submitted by Advocate Lutheran General Hospital

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 263 words


Advocate Lutheran General Hospital is named on Becker's Hospital Review's 2015
edition of its "100 Hospitals and Health Systems With Great Orthopedic Programs"
list.

Lutheran General Hospital is said to be a national leader when it comes to
several aspects of orthopedic care. According to Becker's Hospital Review,
hospitals on the list received recognition for excellence from various reputable
organizations in areas such as joint replacements, orthopedic surgeries and
general orthopedic care.

"It is definitely an honor to be listed among the best orthopedic programs in
the nation," says Dr. Wayne Goldstein, chairman of Orthopedic Surgery at
Advocate Lutheran General Hospital. "We have great depth in our program, with an
exceptional team of surgeons and supporting health care professionals. They
provide outstanding care for our patients and are worthy of this recognition."

Becker's Hospital Review selected hospitals for inclusion based on national
rankings and awards from several institutions, including U.S. News & World
Report national and regional rankings for orthopedics, U.S. News' Common Care
ratings for hip and knee replacement, CareChex rankings for orthopedic care and
orthopedic surgery, Blue Distinction Centers for Knee and Hip Replacement,
Healthgrades orthopedic awards and Magnet designation for nursing excellence.

Becker's Hospital Review has published a version of this list annually since
2011. Note: This list is not an endorsement of included hospitals, health
systems or associated health care providers, and organizations cannot pay for
inclusion.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              465 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday

BMH recognized for safety

BYLINE: By HOWARD WEISS-TISMAN / Reformer Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 484 words


Thursday July 26, 2012

BRATTLEBORO - Brattleboro Memorial Hospital has received high marks from a
survey that ranked hospitals across the country.

BMH was ranked the second safest hospital in Vermont in the August issue of
Consumer Reports.

Consumer Reports looked at six hospitals in Vermont and ranked them on a
numbered scale.

BMH scored a 6-3 on the zero to100 scale, with only Central Vermont Medical
Center in Berlin scoring higher with a 7-1." We are very proud of our ranking.
We are always striving to improve the care that is delivered," said Michele
Rowland, BMH Executive Director of Quality. "We are ever vigilant in terms of
quality."

The magazine looked at 1,159 hospitals in 4-4 states in its first ever rating of
safety.

The rating system used six categories including infections, re-admissions,
communication, CT scanning, complications and mortality.

While celebrating BMH's ranking on the national report, Rowland cautioned that
many factors must be considered when comparing one hospital to another.

She points out that nationally recognized hospitals, such as Massachusetts
General and Cleveland Clinic, scored lowe rthan BMH even though those hospitals
are some of the premier hospitals in the world." We do not want, in any way, to
construe that the low scores at those other hospitals mean they are not safe,"
Rowland said." Medicine is complex, and you can't expect to give a simple grade
to explain the service an institution delivers."

Dr. John Santa, director of the Consumer Reports Health Ratings Center, said in
a press release that the magazine only covered 1-8 percent of the hospitals in
the country because data on patient harm is not reported consistently
nationwide. " Hospitals that volunteer safety information, regardless of their
score, deserve credit, sincethe first step in safety is accountability," Santa
said. "But the fact that consumers can't geta full picture of most hospitals in
the U. S. underscores the need for more public reporting."

BMH routinely reports its safety data as part of its Medicare requirements.

Medicare gives hospitals an extra 2 percent on their funding if they report
safety data, but not every hospital elects to do so.

Dr. David Albright, Chief Medical Officer at BMH, also said the Brattleboro
Hospital is much smaller than large, urban institutions, and if there is a
safety issue it is much easier to address and improve the situation.

And while Albright said the national ranking was welcomed, he said the staff at
BMH put safety as their primary concern long before it became a focal point for
national reports." The medical staff has always been focused on delivering the
best hospital care for our patients," he said. "We have been on top of this long
before people started keeping statistics on a national basis."

Howard WeissTisman can be reached at hwtisman@reformer.com, or 802-254-2-311
ext. 279. Follow on Twitter @HowardReformer.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Emergency Department at the Brattleboro Memorial Hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Queanbeyan Age

                             March 30, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital hand hygiene standards fall short

BYLINE: David Butler; HEALTH

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264  words


QUEANBEYAN Hospital has introduced a range of new hand hygiene protocols
following recent figures on the MyHospitals website showing it had some of the
worst hand- washing standards in south- eastern NSW.

At its most recent hand- hygiene audit in July-October last year, Queanbeyan
Hospital scored a ranking of 55.2 per cent, well-below the national benchmark of
70 per cent and lower than similar-size Batemans Bay Hospital, which scored 81.1
per cent. Across the border, the Canberra Hospital also trumped Queanbeyan's
ranking with a score of 64.8 per cent. As a result of the score, the hospital
has created a new infection control officer position, tasked with bringing hand
hygiene up to an acceptable standard.

More alcohol hand rub stations will also be introduced.

Hospital Health Service Manager Bill Stone said that Queanbeyan Hospital was
taking the hygiene concerns seriously, and had maintained a very low infection
rate over recent years.

"Queanbeyan Hospital has a very low infection rate, and patient safety is
central to all of our clinical activities," he said.

"Compliance rates of all staff must be increased to a level that exceeds the
national standard." The hospital would also increase training sessions with
staff and audit hygiene more closely, Mr Stone said.

"Queanbeyan Hospital has recently appointed a new Infection Control Officer, who
will work with all staff to bring hand hygiene rates to an acceptable standard.
The hospital will conduct face to face education sessions and all staff will be
asked to complete a Hand Hygiene Australia e-learning package."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QA


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Queanbeyan Age

                             March 30, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital hand hygiene standards fall short

BYLINE: David Butler; HEALTH

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264  words


QUEANBEYAN Hospital has introduced a range of new hand hygiene protocols
following recent figures on the MyHospitals website showing it had some of the
worst hand- washing standards in south- eastern NSW.

At its most recent hand- hygiene audit in July-October last year, Queanbeyan
Hospital scored a ranking of 55.2 per cent, well-below the national benchmark of
70 per cent and lower than similar-size Batemans Bay Hospital, which scored 81.1
per cent. Across the border, the Canberra Hospital also trumped Queanbeyan's
ranking with a score of 64.8 per cent. As a result of the score, the hospital
has created a new infection control officer position, tasked with bringing hand
hygiene up to an acceptable standard.

More alcohol hand rub stations will also be introduced.

Hospital Health Service Manager Bill Stone said that Queanbeyan Hospital was
taking the hygiene concerns seriously, and had maintained a very low infection
rate over recent years.

"Queanbeyan Hospital has a very low infection rate, and patient safety is
central to all of our clinical activities," he said.

"Compliance rates of all staff must be increased to a level that exceeds the
national standard." The hospital would also increase training sessions with
staff and audit hygiene more closely, Mr Stone said.

"Queanbeyan Hospital has recently appointed a new Infection Control Officer, who
will work with all staff to bring hand hygiene rates to an acceptable standard.
The hospital will conduct face to face education sessions and all staff will be
asked to complete a Hand Hygiene Australia e-learning package."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QA


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday

Mayo again scores high marks for pediatric care

BYLINE: Brett Boese, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


June 28--Mayo Clinic Children's Center has again been ranked as one of the top
facilities in the country, according to U.S. News & World Report.

The 2017-18 ranking of best children's hospitals was unveiled Tuesday, with Mayo
being ranked among the top performers in 9 out of 10 pediatric specialties. The
report examined nearly 200 pediatric centers across the country and ranked the
Top 50 in each specialty, with 82 facilities earning at least one ranking in the
Top 50.

"The rankings reflect our integrated team-based care that has served as the
cornerstone of Mayo's approach to patients of all ages for more than 150 years,"
said Dr. Randall Flick, a pediatric anesthesiologist and medical director of the
Mayo Clinic Children's Center. "We are honored to have outstanding staff who
continuously strive for excellence and to improve care for millions of patients
we treat each year from around the globe."

Despite Mayo's broad success, it was not included among the Best Children's
Hospital Honor Roll, which recognized the Top 10 pediatric facilities. A point
value was assigned to the rankings -- 25 for No. 1, for example -- to determine
the honor roll.

Boston Children's Hospital earned the top spot with 244 points, while the
Children's National Medical Center in Washington, D.C. rounded out the rankings
at No. 10 with 138 points. Mayo was in the next tier of top performers with 64
points.

Last year, Mayo was ranked in the Top 50 in 8 of the 10 specialties that were
examined. Mayo was ranked No. 37 in Neonatology for 2017-18; that specialty
focuses on the medical care of newborn infants, especially the ill or premature
newborn infants.

Mayo fared best in pediatric cancer care with a ranking of No. 19. It ranked No.
20 in two other specialties -- diabetes and endocrinology, and neurology and
neurosurgery.

"The Mayo Clinic Children's Center brings Mayo Clinic quality to children and
families through cutting-edge interventions, such as the Fetal Care Center,
proton beam therapy for childhood cancer, and stem cell treatment for children
with heart disease," Dr. Flick said via press release. "Our team approach and
ability to coordinate care across specialties allows us to be able to address
health problems of all kinds and focus on the individual needs of each patient."

Mayo Clinic's pediatric facility is ranked as the top medical facility in the
Upper Midwest and its Rochester campus was ranked as the top medical facility in
the country in the 2016-17 U.S. News & World Report, which was released last
August. It was ranked among the Top 50 in 15 of the 16 adult specialties
examined by last year's report.

The new national rankings by U.S. News & World Report are expected to be
announced in late July or early August.

___ (c)2017 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170628-RC-Mayo-again-scores-high-marks-for-pediatric-care-0628-20170628

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2017 Post-Bulletin

                              469 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

Patients get to rank their stay in hospital

BYLINE: By MICHELLE DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 332 words


PATIENTS WILL be able to write reviews of their public hospital stays when Trip
Advisor-style ratings are adopted in New Zealand next year.

Health Minister Tony Ryall has confirmed a patient ranking system for public
hospitals, similar to those already in use in Britain, will be rolled out
nationwide.

It will allow patients to score hospitals on the quality of their emergency
departments and inpatient wards and comment on what they liked or disliked,
including staff, beds and food.

In Britain, the National Health Service introduced the Friends and Family test
in April this year. Patients are surveyed and can write online reviews, giving
hospitals and clinics star ratings on cleanliness, staff co-operation, dignity
and respect, patient involvement and accommodation.

In New Zealand, the Health Quality & Safety Commission is working on a similar
but more comprehensive version of the tests for our hospitals.

"We will expect that we will be introducing this into hospitals in the middle of
next year," Ryall said.

"We know that this actually improves performance. It will provide tremendous
feedback to DHBs and their wards and their clinicians on their performance,
because it will actually tell them what their patients think and feel about the
level of service."

Individual rankings for doctors and nurses would not be included but, based on
international trends, that may happen later, Ryall said.

"We're not in a position to do that yet but I think over the next three to four
years there's an inevitability about more disclosure of information on both a
hospital and individual level."

However, an increasing number of New Zealand doctors are already being rated
through the US-based website RateMDs.com, with more than 200 rankings on the
site. It allows patients to score doctors out of five, with comments alongside.

New Zealand Medical Association deputy chair Robert Francis said the medical
profession welcomed more scrutiny but were concerned about how a ranking system
would work.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

Patients get to rank their stay in hospital

BYLINE: By MICHELLE DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 332 words


PATIENTS WILL be able to write reviews of their public hospital stays when Trip
Advisor-style ratings are adopted in New Zealand next year.

Health Minister Tony Ryall has confirmed a patient ranking system for public
hospitals, similar to those already in use in Britain, will be rolled out
nationwide.

It will allow patients to score hospitals on the quality of their emergency
departments and inpatient wards and comment on what they liked or disliked,
including staff, beds and food.

In Britain, the National Health Service introduced the Friends and Family test
in April this year. Patients are surveyed and can write online reviews, giving
hospitals and clinics star ratings on cleanliness, staff co-operation, dignity
and respect, patient involvement and accommodation.

In New Zealand, the Health Quality & Safety Commission is working on a similar
but more comprehensive version of the tests for our hospitals.

"We will expect that we will be introducing this into hospitals in the middle of
next year," Ryall said.

"We know that this actually improves performance. It will provide tremendous
feedback to DHBs and their wards and their clinicians on their performance,
because it will actually tell them what their patients think and feel about the
level of service."

Individual rankings for doctors and nurses would not be included but, based on
international trends, that may happen later, Ryall said.

"We're not in a position to do that yet but I think over the next three to four
years there's an inevitability about more disclosure of information on both a
hospital and individual level."

However, an increasing number of New Zealand doctors are already being rated
through the US-based website RateMDs.com, with more than 200 rankings on the
site. It allows patients to score doctors out of five, with comments alongside.

New Zealand Medical Association deputy chair Robert Francis said the medical
profession welcomed more scrutiny but were concerned about how a ranking system
would work..

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

Patients get to rank their stay in hospital

BYLINE: By MICHELLE DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 332 words


PATIENTS WILL be able to write reviews of their public hospital stays when Trip
Advisor-style ratings are adopted in New Zealand next year.

Health Minister Tony Ryall has confirmed a patient ranking system for public
hospitals, similar to those already in use in Britain, will be rolled out
nationwide.

It will allow patients to score hospitals on the quality of their emergency
departments and inpatient wards and comment on what they liked or disliked,
including staff, beds and food.

In Britain, the National Health Service introduced the Friends and Family test
in April this year. Patients are surveyed and can write online reviews, giving
hospitals and clinics star ratings on cleanliness, staff co-operation, dignity
and respect, patient involvement and accommodation.

In New Zealand, the Health Quality & Safety Commission is working on a similar
but more comprehensive version of the tests for our hospitals.

"We will expect that we will be introducing this into hospitals in the middle of
next year," Ryall said.

"We know that this actually improves performance. It will provide tremendous
feedback to DHBs and their wards and their clinicians on their performance,
because it will actually tell them what their patients think and feel about the
level of service."

Individual rankings for doctors and nurses would not be included but, based on
international trends, that may happen later, Ryall said.

"We're not in a position to do that yet but I think over the next three to four
years there's an inevitability about more disclosure of information on both a
hospital and individual level."

However, an increasing number of New Zealand doctors are already being rated
through the US-based website RateMDs.com, with more than 200 rankings on the
site. It allows patients to score doctors out of five, with comments alongside.

New Zealand Medical Association deputy chair Robert Francis said the medical
profession welcomed more scrutiny but were concerned about how a ranking system
would work.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

Patients get to rank their stay in hospital

BYLINE: By MICHELLE DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 332 words


PATIENTS WILL be able to write reviews of their public hospital stays when Trip
Advisor-style ratings are adopted in New Zealand next year.

Health Minister Tony Ryall has confirmed a patient ranking system for public
hospitals, similar to those already in use in Britain, will be rolled out
nationwide.

It will allow patients to score hospitals on the quality of their emergency
departments and inpatient wards and comment on what they liked or disliked,
including staff, beds and food.

In Britain, the National Health Service introduced the Friends and Family test
in April this year. Patients are surveyed and can write online reviews, giving
hospitals and clinics star ratings on cleanliness, staff co-operation, dignity
and respect, patient involvement and accommodation.

In New Zealand, the Health Quality & Safety Commission is working on a similar
but more comprehensive version of the tests for our hospitals.

"We will expect that we will be introducing this into hospitals in the middle of
next year," Ryall said.

"We know that this actually improves performance. It will provide tremendous
feedback to DHBs and their wards and their clinicians on their performance,
because it will actually tell them what their patients think and feel about the
level of service."

Individual rankings for doctors and nurses would not be included but, based on
international trends, that may happen later, Ryall said.

"We're not in a position to do that yet but I think over the next three to four
years there's an inevitability about more disclosure of information on both a
hospital and individual level."

However, an increasing number of New Zealand doctors are already being rated
through the US-based website RateMDs.com, with more than 200 rankings on the
site. It allows patients to score doctors out of five, with comments alongside.

New Zealand Medical Association deputy chair Robert Francis said the medical
profession welcomed more scrutiny but were concerned about how a ranking system
would work.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 5, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U-M Health System: Leaders and Best: U-M Health System Ranked Among 100 Top
Hospitals in the U.S.

LENGTH: 627  words


New Delhi, March 5 -- A new independent analysis of the quality, safety and
efficiency of care provided by more than 3,000 hospitals across the country
rates the University of Michigan Health System in the top 100.

In the 100 Top Hospitals list released today by Truven Health Analytics, UMHS is
one of only 15 major teaching hospitals to earn a place.



U-M's ever-improving performance on measures of patient safety, health care
quality and financial stability also earned Truven's Everest Award -- given to
only 17 hospitals of any kind across the country.

"We are very proud of this honor because it recognizes our extensive efforts to
continually improve the quality and safety of care we provide to patients," says
UMHS CEO Ora Hirsch Pescovitz, M.D. "The faculty and staff who provide and
support patient care within our Health System are the people who earned this
honor."

"It's gratifying to see how the hard work of our physicians and staff has
brought us to the very peak of performance in American health care, as measured
by objective data," says Doug Strong, MBA , the chief executive officer of the
U-M Hospitals and Health Centers. "The recognition for our sustained high
quality and rapid improvement, even as we provide highly complex care, is
fantastic."

Darrell Campbell, Jr., M.D., the chief medical officer for UMHS, notes that
while all these rankings and ratings are based on different combinations of
factors, they all showcase the broad-based excellence of UMHS care.

"As patients, and those who pay for their care, demand accountability and better
performance from health care providers and institutions, we're proud to reach
the top tier," he says. "But we also know that we must constantly look for ways
to improve our performance as we seek be the safest hospital in the country."

The 100 Top Hospitals ranking is based on a broad range of data, including
information about how often patients suffered complications and preventable
patient safety incidents, how often patients were re-admitted to the hospital
soon after a hospital stay, how long patients stayed in the hospital, the cost
of hospital care adjusted for the severity of illness, and mortality rates.
Patients' ratings of care, and other factors, are also included.

UMHS has now been on the Truven (formerly Thomson Reuters) Top Hospitals list
eight times. The methodology used to compile the ranking has evolved to include
ever-more-precise measurement that takes into account each patient's
characteristics.

This is the latest in a series of recognitions for the high level of care that
UMHS provides to patients of all ages at its three hospitals and 40 outpatient
health centers. Each ranking or honor is based on different factors, but taken
together they show the broad-based strength of U-M care.

Earlier this month, Parents magazine ranked the U-M C.S. Mott Children's
Hospital among the Top 10 Children's Hospitals in the country, and more than 500
U-M Medical School faculty physicians were named among America's Top Doctors by
their peers. Just two months ago, the Leapfrog Group ranked U-M among only 67
Top Hospitals for patient safety.

In 2012, U.S. News & World Report placed U-M on its Best Hospitals national
Honor Roll for the 18th year in a row and ranked Mott high in all 10 children's
health specialties, and UMHS won the National Research Corporation's 2012
Consumer Choice Award for being patients' top choice for both the Ann Arbor and
Detroit areas.

Truven estimates that if all hospitals performed at the same level as the 100
Top Hospitals award winners, more than 164,000 additional lives could be saved,
nearly 82,000 additional patients could be complication-free, $6 billion could
be saved and the average patient stay would decrease by nearly half a day.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 13, 2002 Saturday

Hospital praised for heart care

BYLINE: JENNIFER GOLDBLATT

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 284 words

DATELINE: BAYONET POINT


Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point has been named the nation's 27th best
hospital for heart care and heart surgery, according to  U.S. News & World
Report.

This is the second time the 290-bed hospital has been in the top 50 of the
magazine's annual rankings. In 1999, the hospital ranked 50th on the list for
heart care and heart surgery.

"We were pleased to get on the ranking again and pleased to see that we moved
significantly up the list," said Bob Conroy, the chief operating officer of the
hospital, which is owned by HCA - The Healthcare Co.

Since its last ranking in U.S. News, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point has
completed a $39-million expansion, which included the addition of a three-story
cardiac care tower, an upgrade of the center's technology and a consolidation of
the cardiac services into one area of the hospital.

The magazine named 205 hospitals from all over the nation in 17 specialties.

The list is due to appear in its July 22 issue, which will be on the newsstands
Monday.

The hospitals' scores were based on reputation; the ratio of full-time, on-staff
registered nurses to beds; the number of key technologies offered and other
criteria.

Conroy said the hospital was already working on incorporating the award into its
marketing program.

"I think that people look at it, because it's a third-party unbiased
assessment," he said.

"It's just recognition of the hard work done by the staff and the physicians for
taking care of the cardiology patients."

- Jennifer Goldblatt covers business in Pasco County. She can be reached in west
Pasco at 869-6229, or toll-free at 1-800-333-7505, ext. 6229. Her e-mail address
is goldblatt@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES; HERNANDO TIMES

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company

                              475 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             August 15, 2016 Monday
                                 METRO EDITION

READERS WRITE The crisis needs triage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1320 words


HEALTH CARE: DOCTOR BURNOUT

As a recently retired physician, I found the Aug. 7 article "Doctors battling
crisis of burnout" provocative. Kudos to the institutions and physicians who are
struggling with this problem (especially Dr. Mark Linzer, who has been at the
forefront of this issue for some time). However, as I read about efforts to
"help doctors cope" with this problem, I was reminded of the well-worn but
valuable public health analogy: Better to climb to the top of the cliff to
prevent people from falling off than to hurry more ambulances to the foot of it
to treat the injured.

One interpretation of this experience is that our health care "system" is
fundamentally flawed by conflicts between expectations and resources. For
example, in clinics, providers are being "measured" for their patients'
satisfaction, including timeliness; nevertheless, they are also expected to
"squeeze in" additional patients who have turned up without appointments. The
electronic medical record and "home access" permits providers to spend a bit of
time with their family, then sit down to the computer to finish "documentation"
of their clinical activities of the day. Cost-conscious managers continue to
reduce the number of support staff for providers but increase the number of
tasks expected of them.

Treating the injured at the bottom of the cliff (the burned-out) is an
unsustainable approach; rather, hospitals and clinics should be trying to fix
the system that causes these problems in the first place. Solving the problem
might be expected both to reduce costs (including those of provider replacement)
and to improve care.

Dr. John D. Tobin Jr., St. Paul

HEALTH CARE: MERGER FAILS

Hospital sale in 1997 wasn't why research declined at U

In the Aug. 9 article on the collapse of the Fairview-University of Minnesota
merger, a former chief of cardiology linked the decline in the ranking of the
university's research programs to the sale of the University of Minnesota
Hospital to Fairview. This is an opinion that shouldn't have been accepted at
face value. Data show that research funding and National Institutes of Health
ranking at the U began declining in 1982, well before Fairview purchased the
hospital in 1997. Rather than undermining research at the U, Fairview's purchase
of the hospital saved it from financial disaster.

The reporter could have consulted publicly available information detailing
factual causes for the U's research declines rather than reporting only one
person's opinion. For example, the Governor's Blue Ribbon Commission on the
University of Minnesota Medical School issued a report in January 2015 showing a
sharp drop in NIH ranking in the early 1990s when the U was put on NIH
"exceptional status" designation after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
shut down the U's production of ALG, an anti-rejection drug not approved by FDA.
As noted in an MPR News article in 2006 (http://tinyurl.com/znhmcfw), "Before
the scandal, the medical school enjoyed an NIH funding rank in the top 15 in the
country. Afterward, the ranking slipped out of the top 20, even as NIH total
funding nationally nearly doubled." This, combined with the departure of almost
90 tenured and tenure-track faculty members (many of whom took their research
grants to their new institutions), are more accurate reasons for declining
research ranking at the university.

Dorothy Jung, Minnetonka

PATIENT ACCESS

More of the poor get to doctor, but what about middle class?

I was encouraged by the Aug. 9 headline "More poor patients getting to doctor
under health care law" - if by the statement you mean that the poor are using
doctors in clinics more than using emergency rooms, that's a good thing. If a
service (Medicaid) is free or low-cost, it will be used more, though complaints
of health care delivery remain. The poor have never, in my 30 years of providing
health care, had a lack of opportunity to access health care. Increased health
insurance premiums, copays and outrageous deductibles contribute to providing
health care to the poor but are pricing the middle class out of visiting
doctors. Many middle-class families have simply foregone health insurance
altogether.

I am curious to know if middle-class insured and uninsured are reducing their
access to health care due to the increased costs, or if it is just me. Recently,
I stepped on a rusty nail while mowing my daughter's lawn. I shut off the mower,
removed the nail, removed my sock and shoe, poured some vodka on it, applied a
bandage, then continued mowing.

Rick Dischinger, Minneapolis

The writer is a nurse.

GMOS

With this debate, you have the left's version of scientific denial

One of the greatest ailments to American society today is the toxic stew of
scientific illiteracy combined with confirmation bias for partisan conspiracy
theories. An Aug. 10 letter ("OK, suppose they're safe. They still have a
detrimental impact") illustrates the regressive left's version of scientific
denial through the form of GMO conspiracies. While the writer admits that GMO
foods are safe, he postulates that their environmental impact still makes them a
hazard to society.

This view is erroneous on several fronts. First, there is nothing inherently
problematic about GMOs with regard to their environmental impact. In fact, some
GMOs are being developed with insect resistance encoded in their genes,
rendering pesticides unnecessary. Second, the writer falsely claims that
glyphosate (Roundup) is harmful to humans. A joint effort by the United Nations
and the World Health Organization in 2016 concluded that "glyphosate is unlikely
to pose a carcinogenic risk to humans from exposure through diet." A 2002 review
by the European Union reached a similar conclusion. In addition, the claim that
Roundup-resistant crops are doused in chemicals is completely false: For corn
and soybeans, 16 ounces of glyphosate are sprayed over an acre. I would hardly
consider that "dousing." Among other mammals, glyphosate has a "low to very low
level of toxicity." If that isn't enough to convince anti-GMO advocates, a
letter signed by 107 Nobel laureates states that GMOs "have been shown
repeatedly to be less damaging to the environment, and a boon to global
biodiversity."

Sam Carlen, St. Paul

U.S. COMMITMENTS

Admit those Afghan translators, for their sake and ours

Fellow Americans, who are we and what will become of us? The Aug. 10 article
"Afghan translators wait for U.S. to fulfill promise" highlights the dangerous
shortsightedness of our stalemate politics. The world recognizes it is morally
corrupt for our lawmakers to renege on our pledge to protect thousands of
translators and their families who aided us in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Given this track record, who do you think will provide intelligence and material
support when the battle against terrorism threatens more Americans at home and
abroad?

Sara Langer, Minneapolis

MEDIA BIAS

Example: The handling of descriptions on Lewis, Craig

I am always amazed at what passes for reporting in the Star Tribune, and the
Aug. 10 article "Lewis tops 3 others in heated GOP District 2 Primary" was no
exception. The article included the following comment on candidate Darlene
Miller's take on Lewis: "She had publicized and criticized some of Lewis'
outrageous radio comments and writings." Note that the sentence states as fact
that his comments and writings were outrageous, not that Miller says they were.

Compare that with the following statement a few paragraphs later: "Meanwhile,
the Minnesota Republican Party accused Craig" - Lewis' DFL opponent in the
upcoming general election - "of having a radical left-wing agenda." Note the
difference: Here the authors are careful to point out that it was the Republican
Party that made the accusation, not that it is a fact. Anyone looking for proof
of blatant liberal bias by the Star Tribune and its writers need look no
further.

Robin Kelleher, Burnsville

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                            November 4, 2016, Friday

Wal-Mart not top employer;
WVU Medicine leads private-business list

BYLINE: Jake Jarvis Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 492 words


For the first time since 1998, Wal-Mart is not the largest private employer in
West Virginia.

WVU Medicine, formerly known as West Virginia United Health System, rose to the
top of this year's ranking of the top private employers in the Mountain State,
according to the annual report from WorkForce West Virginia. Wal-Mart fell to
second place.

WVU Medicine, under its prior name, was the second-largest private employer in
the state for a decade.

Albert Wright, the president and CEO of WVU Medicine, said the name change
doesn't have anything to do with WVU Medicine's placement on the list, but its
acquisition of new hospitals and high number of new hires does.

"A lot of people say, How are you growing so fast?' Wright said. "I think we're
just doing better than ever at taking care of our folks and keeping people here
in West Virginia.

Wright said his organization made a commitment a few years ago to increase the
number of specialists the hospital system has on site, so patients wouldn't have
to drive to faraway hospitals to get the care they need.

Wright said WVU Medicine has hired 500 nurses this year, and is still actively
recruiting 150 physician assistants - of which 110 are entirely new positions.

"Over the last couple years, we've added hospitals in Buckhannon, Keyser and, on
Oct. 1, Reynolds Memorial Hospital, in Glen Dale, Wright said. "As we've gone
through these acquisitions - and we're just growing like crazy - our numbers
keep rising.

Last year's ranking listed West Virginia United Health System and West Virginia
University Medical Corporation (University Health Associates) as separate
entities. Wright said the latter organization included mostly physicians and is
now integrated into the general WVU Medicine group.

Joining WVU Medicine and Wal-Mart in the top five rankings are Charleston Area
Medical Center, Kroger and Mylan Pharmaceuticals. Lowe's Home Improvement
Centers rose from eighth to sixth on the list.

Two Huntington hospitals that are planning to merge, St. Mary's Medical Center
and Cabell Huntington Hospital, ranked seventh and eighth, respectively.
Wheeling Hospital ranked ninth, and the home-care company ResCare rounded out
the top 10.

According to WorkForce West Virginia, this year's top 10 employers have 4,395
more people than last year.

Earlier this year, Wal-Mart closed 154 locations across the country, including
one store in McDowell County.

WorkForce West Virginia compiles the rankings each year based on quarterly
contribution reports from the first quarter of the year.

The agency doesn't release employment numbers, to "maintain employer
confidentiality, according to the release.

Chelsea Ruby, director of marketing and communications for the West Virginia
Department of Commerce, said she couldn't say if WVU Medicine had more employees
this year than in years previous, or if Wal-Mart had fewer.

Reach Jake Jarvis at jake.jarvis@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-7939 or follow
@NewsroomJake on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers

                              477 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 14, 2017 Friday

Report gives RMC, Stringfellow C grades

BYLINE: Patrick McCreless, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 787 words


April 14--A health care safety report from a national nonprofit Wednesday gave
Anniston's two hospitals a "C" grade for problems during some surgeries and poor
communication between staff and patients.

Regional Medical Center and Stringfellow Memorial Hospital officials say their
facilities constantly work to improve quality of care and that recent rankings
and awards from other organizations give them better scores than the Wednesday
report.

Some experts say there has been a greater drive in the health care business in
recent years to improve quality and safety to earn more reimbursements from
insurers and cut costs.

The safety report, released by the Leapfrog Group, a Washington, D.C.-based
nonprofit that grades hospitals on errors, accidents and infections, ranked
2,639 U.S. hospitals. Of those, 823 earned an "A," 706 earned a "B," 933 earned
a "C," 167 earned a "D" and 10 earned an "F."

Deirdre McCaughey, program director for graduate programs in health care quality
and safety at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, said Leapfrog was a
credible organization. (UAB Hospital earned an "A" grade in the report.)

"Is their methodology robust? Yes," McCaughey said. "Are the people involved
trustworthy? Yes."

RMC's ranking was due mainly to problems related to some surgeries. For
instance, the report shows RMC had more patient deaths from serious but
treatable conditions than the average among the other hospitals surveyed. RMC
was also worse than the average for allowing surgical wound stitching to tear,
blood clots and accidental cuts and tears among patients.

The report does note that much of the data it used was collected between 2013
and 2015, the source being the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

In a Thursday email to The Star, Louis Bass, RMC CEO, wrote that RMC is not an
active participant in the Leapfrog survey and that trending data is a more
accurate reflection of where his hospital is excelling.

"RMC is constantly striving to improve in all aspects of quality and patient
safety and we have made significant progress over the last several years," Bass
wrote.

Bass wrote that RMC has earned awards in recent years for quality care,
including a Top Performer for Key Quality Measures award from the Joint
Commission on Accreditation, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama's Centers for
Maternity Care and Knee and Hip Replacement and multiple Outstanding Achievement
Awards from the Commission on Cancer.

"All of which include overall quality measures for patient safety outcomes,"
Bass wrote.

Meanwhile, Stringfellow earned its ranking more for its physicians and nurses
having insufficient communication with patients. The hospital also had a low
ranking because of having a staff that was less responsive to patient needs than
the national average.

Natalie Fleming, spokeswoman for Stringfellow, wrote in a Thursday email to The
Star that her hospital is committed to providing safe, quality care for every
patient.

"We are disappointed by our "C" grade in the Leapfrog update, as it does not
fully reflect the quality of care we provide," Fleming wrote.

Fleming also listed a string of awards Stringfellow received in recent years,
including accreditation from the Joint Commission and recognition by U.S. News
and World Report Best Hospitals report.

"The Leapfrog Group is one of several organizations reanalyzing data that is
publicly reported, which results in different ratings on different sites,"
Fleming wrote. "Our hospital continues to take every opportunity to further
increase quality and service."

McCaughey said the pressure to improve quality and safety at hospitals has
continually increased in the last decade.

"No time in health care until somewhat recently has there been such an emphasis
on quality," McCaughey said.

The push began around 2007, when the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid started
restructuring some of its treatment reimbursements to health care providers,
offering higher payouts based off quality rankings and outcomes.

"Quality went from being just a moral imperative to more of a value imperative,"
McCaughey said.

Don Williamson, president of the Alabama Hospital Association, said Blue Cross
and other private insurers also started tying payouts to quality, which
encouraged more improvement at hospitals.

"There's been a much more visible effort to improve quality and most
importantly, measuring that, among hospitals," Williamson said. "Payers are
interested in reducing cost and avoiding unnecessary admissions."

Staff writer Patrick McCreless: 256-235-3561. On Twitter @PMcCreless_Star.

___ (c)2017 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170414-AO-Report-gives-RMC-Stringfellow-C-grades-0414-20170414

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2017 The Anniston Star

                              478 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 2, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

CareChex Names Ochsner Number Two in the Nation in Overall Hospital Care

LENGTH: 597  words


New Delhi, Nov. 2 -- CareChex, a division of COMPARION, has named Ochsner1
number two in the country and number one in Louisiana in Overall Hospital Care
in its 2014 hospital ratings. Ochsner received the highest rating of ++ and a
score of 99.9 out of 100 in the national rankings. Over 4,000 hospitals from
across the country were ranked in the Overall Hospital Care category which
comprises ratings of all2 inpatient medical conditions and surgical procedures
treated and performed by full-service hospitals, such as cancer care, cardiac
surgery and spinal surgery. Ochsner was second only to St Mary's Hospital, which
is part of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN.



Additionally, for the second year in a row, Ochsner was named number one in the
country for liver transplants and this year was named number two for kidney
transplants. This prestigious distinction encompasses three quality measures:
patient safety indicators, mortality rates and complication rates.

Utilizing extensive clinical data from the Hospital Quality Alliance and the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, CareChex provides a comprehensive
evaluation of all components of medical quality including:

* Process of care - measures specific processes that should be followed during
heart attack and heart failure, pneumonia, outpatient procedures, surgical care
and preventive care, among others.

* Outcomes of care - measures mortality and complication rates, inpatient
quality indicators and patient safety indicators

* Patient satisfaction - measures overall hospital ratings, doctor and nurse
communication, hospital environment, and staff responsiveness, among others.

CareChex provides these findings to consumers, providers and purchasers of U.S.
medical care, including many Fortune 500 companies.

"CareChex allows the public to make informed decisions regarding the quality of
medical care provided by hospitals," said Dr. Thane Forthman, President and CEO,
CareChex a division of Comparion. "We are pleased to acknowledge that Ochsner
Medical Center has achieved an exceptionally high level of performance across
all components of medical quality. Ochsner's performance is a benchmark that
other hospitals should seek to emulate."

"The CareChex rankings demonstrate Ochsner's commitment to the highest quality
patient care," said Dr. Joseph Bisordi, Chief Medical Officer, Ochsner Health
System. "What matters most to us are positive outcomes for our patients. We want
our patients to get the best possible care so they can go home sooner and get
back to their lives and families."

"We are honored to have our programs named among the best in the country by
CareChex, which is used by some of the largest companies in the nation in order
to make informed healthcare decisions," said Warner Thomas, President and CEO,
Ochsner Health System. "Each and every member of Ochsner's team is relentlessly
focused on quality and understands that it is part of their responsibility to
make sure our patients have the best possible outcomes. I am extremely proud of
the physicians and clinical teams who provide such exceptional care to our
patients every day."

"As our transplant program continues to grow both regionally and nationally, we
remain committed to providing the best service and care for our patients," said
Dr. Nigel Girgrah, PhD, Head of Hepatology, Medical Director of the Multi-Organ
Transplant Institute. "We work with so many patients and families over long
periods of time, so we know what a difference a successful transplant can make
in someone's life. That's why we work so hard to be the best."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Long Island Business News (Long Island, NY)

                                November 2, 2007

Long Island Medical Briefs: November 2, 2007

BYLINE: Alison Snyder

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 707  words


Cuomo takes on Empire, HIP/GHI on doc ranking

Attorney General Andrew Cuomo is targeting two of Long Island's biggest health
insurance companies in his ongoing scrutiny of doctor-ranking programs.

Cuomo recently called on Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield to defend its "Blue
Precision" ranking program. He also warned Preferred Care against launching its
planned ranking program, and cautioned HIP Health Plan/GHI against starting one
as well.

An Oct. 18 letter sent by the AG to Empire said physician-ranking programs run
by insurers could be a conflict of interest, "because of the insurers' financial
motive to steer consumers to the cheapest, and not necessarily the best,
doctors. " The letter also says Empire's program could be "driven by the desire
to save money for the insurer" and "not necessarily designed with the best
interest of consumers in mind. "

Empire is the largest insurer in Suffolk County, with 134,000 customers
enrolled, according to the state Department of Health. In Nassau, Empire insures
89,000. HIP insures 126,000 in Suffolk and 79,000 in Nassau.

Empire spokeswoman Lisa Greiner said the insurer does not offer its Blue
Precision program to New York customers, although the program is expected to be
available in 22 states by 2008. Greiner said Empire would not release quality
and cost data "until we are comfortable that we have appropriately addressed
questions raised by stakeholders such as New York consumers, employers,
physicians and regulators, including the New York attorney general. "

HIP/GHI said it would submit any "consumer-directed" physician-ranking program
for review by the attorney general. Preferred Care did not respond to repeated
calls from LIBN.

This summer, the attorney general's office sent similar letters to insurers
Aetna Health Plan, UnitedHealthcare and CIGNA Healthcare. On Monday, Cuomo
announced his office had reached an agreement with CIGNA on its doctor-ranking
program; CIGNA will fully disclose all aspects of its ranking program to
physicians and customers, the AG said, and will assign an "oversight monitor" to
report back to the AG's office every six months and ensure compliance with the
agreement.

Researchers link brain, autoimmune disorders

A hypothetical connection between the brain and the immune system would be key
in treating autoimmune conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and rheumatoid
arthritis - and researchers at North Shore - LIJ's The Feinstein Institute for
Medical Research say they've found one.

The vagus nerve, which winds from the brain through the heart and abdomen,
connects directly to the immune system, controlling the body's inflammatory
response to infection and autoimmune diseases, according to the institute.

Kevin Tracey, director and chief executive at Feinstein, discovered that
stimulating the vagus nerve sends commands to the immune system to stop abnormal
immune responses. Scientists are now testing to see if such stimulation could
stop an unwanted inflammatory response and help treat various diseases.

Going electronic at Nassau University

It may not be the richest hospital on the planet, but Nassau University Medical
Center is hyping its efforts to stay on the "cutting edge of health-care
technology," in the words of Arthur Gianelli, president and chief executive of
Nassau Health Care Corp.

NUMC has implemented a new picture-archiving and communication system that
allows staff to digitize and transmit medical images such as ultrasounds and
X-rays. The hospital also recently went live with a document-scanning system
that enables staff to view medical records electronically, part of an industry
trend toward digitizing medical records.

NUMC also aims to have a new computer system, completely installed this year
allowing physicians to give orders to hospital staff electronically. The
hospital now boasts 50 wireless workstations on patient floors, allowing
physicians to access clinical systems over a secure wireless network.

A total of 2 percent of the hospital's annual budget is spent on IT -
approximately $5 million, according to hospital spokeswoman Shelley Lotenberg.
In addition, NUMC received $1.8 million this year to update IT systems through
the state's Health Care Efficiency and Affordability Law, Lotenberg said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HEALTH ALERTS

BYLINE: A staff report

SECTION: 4YOU; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 503 words


Moffitt Ranks In Most Wired Survey

TAMPA - The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute has been named by
Hospitals & Health Networks in partnership with the American Hospital
Association, Accenture, McKesson Healthcare and CHIME as one of "100 most wired
hospitals and health systems" in the United States. This is the first year
Moffitt has appeared on the list.

The Most Wired Survey identifies 100 hospitals and health systems that have
adopted information technology to streamline business and clinical practices,
improve patient outcomes, and decrease the occurrence of medical errors. The
survey assesses a hospital's adoption and use of technology in five key areas:
safety and quality, customer service, business processes, work force, and public
health and safety.

A staff report

TGH Doctor Receives National Award

TAMPA - Tampa General Aeromed Medical Director Catherine Carrubba has received
the 2006 Distinguished Physician Award from the Air Medical Physician
Association.

This national award is presented to one physician every year who has
significantly contributed to the air medicine profession. It also recognizes
lifetime achievement and service to the air medical community.

Carrubba has been with Tampa General for nearly 20 years and has been Aeromed's
medical director since its inception in 1989. She also serves as Hillsborough
County's mass casualty director and Tampa Fire Rescue's medical director.

A staff report

Moffitt Moves Up In Rankings

TAMPA - The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute has made the
"America's Best Hospitals for cancer" list in U.S. News & World Report. The No.
11 ranking is up from No. 13 last year. This is the eighth year in a row Moffitt
has appeared on the news magazine's prestigious "America's Best Hospitals" list
of 50 hospitals.

The hospital guide hit newsstands July 10 and can be viewed online at
www.usnews.com/besthospitals.

Administration attributed Moffitt's high ranking to a number of advances:

oRecruitment of top-notch clinicians and scientists

oThe quality of Moffitt's research initiatives

oPhenomenal growth

A staff report

Drug Study Seeks Participants

TAMPA - David Drobes, member of the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research
Institute's Tobacco Research & Intervention Program, is conducting a new study
on alcohol and nicotine effects. The purpose is to determine how people react to
different combinations of alcohol and nicotine.

About 105 participants will be recruited. To qualify for the study, participants
must smoke cigarettes and drink alcohol at least occasionally. Drobes is
interested in reactions to alcohol and nicotine among people who consume
different amounts of these substances.

The study will last approximately five weeks. Participants will visit Moffitt's
TRIP office about once per week. Sessions will last two to four hours.

For information, call (813) 745-4374.

A staff report

Photo: Catherine Carrubba

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             April 2, 2005 Saturday
                                  ALL EDITION

SITE COMPARES HOSPITAL CARE

BYLINE: By Tom Corwin Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 478 words


Patients can now pull up a Web site to compare how virtually every hospital in
America performed in treating certain key diseases, health officials announced
Friday. But Augusta hospital officials said the numbers don't tell all of the
story or show the advances made since the data collection started more than a
year ago.

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Mark McClellan
announced the Hospital Compare search option, unveiled Friday on Medicare's Web
site, as a way for consumers to make more informed decisions.

"These important dimensions of quality are a start to providing much more
evidence-based choices when people think about how to get their hospital care,"
Dr. McClellan said.

Hospitals had to turn in data about how often they met 17 standards of care in
treating three conditions - heart attacks, heart failure and pneumonia - which
account for a large percentage of admissions. Within a year, the site also will
include rankings on other categories, such as patient satisfaction and hospital
-acquired infection, he said.

"This is not a final product," Dr. McClellan said. "It is a next step down a
very important road toward Medicare moving from simply paying for medical
services to supporting high-quality care that keeps getting better."

The American Hospital Association has been working on the effort and welcomes
the move toward rewarding better care, said President Dick Davidson.

"I think we're just moving into a new era in pay for performance," he said.

The rankings should be viewed in context, however, Augusta officials said. At
this stage, they probably have more to do with how well hospitals are
documenting care and improving their systems for handling patients, said William
Farr, the chief medical officer for University Health Care System.

"I believe right now it's more helpful to the providers than to the patients,"
he said.

A year after the rankings were introduced, hospitals have had a chance to make
changes so that their current numbers are much higher, said Becky Echols, the
performance improvement/regulatory standards manager at St. Joseph Hospital.

"We've looked at it as opportunities for improvement and how to improve care,"
she said.

And it should be viewed in context with other information and in consultation
with physicians, said Pam Renfro, the director of quality resource management at
Doctors Hospital.

"It shouldn't be a stand-alone thing that they use," she said.

But the rankings and the public Web site now give hospitals yet another
incentive to improve care, said Patricia Sodomka, the senior vice president for
patient and family-centered care.

"We think this is healthy," she said. "This is part of what we believe is
important for everyone to improve. Public accountability helps us all stay
focused on what's important."

Reach Tom Corwin at (706) 823-3213

or tom.corwin@augustachronicle.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation

                              482 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 362 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Local Hospitals Fare Well

Two Tampa hospitals affiliated with the University of South Florida scored among
the Top 50 in the 2007 ranking of America's Best Hospitals by U.S. News & World
Report, released Tuesday.

Tampa General Hospital made the list in five specialties: orthopedics, No. 24;
gynecology, No. 25; kidney disease and urology, both No. 41; and
ear/nose/throat, No. 46.

H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute ranked 16th in cancer and 42nd
in ear/nose/throat.

The annual list ranked 16 medical specialties among 5,462 hospitals nationwide,
with measures that included mortality rates and reputation on a survey of top
specialists.

Only one Florida hospital notched a top-10 ranking. Bascom Palmer Eye Institute
at the University of Miami was voted No. 1 in its specialty.

Airport Breaks Record

Tampa International Airport set a June record for departing passengers with
819,755 last month, 3.5 percent more than in June 2006.

Aquarium 'Kid Friendly'

Parents Magazine ranked The Florida Aquarium fifth among "The 10 Best Aquariums
for Kids" in its August issue.

STATE

Florida's Rate Highest

The so-called benchmark payment rate for private Medicare Advantage health plans
this year is higher in Florida than in any other state, coming in at $952.93 a
month per person, according to a comparison by Mathematica Policy Research
released Tuesday by the Kaiser Family Foundation. That's 18 percent above the
national average benchmark of $807.48 a month.

NET

SunRocket Fizzles

The abrupt shutdown of Internet phone carrier SunRocket left more than 200,000
customers scrambling for alternative service Tuesday. Nobody at SunRocket was
available to explain why the company ceased operations Monday without warning.

WORLD

Basell, Lyondell Merge

Dutch chemicals company Basell and U.S. competitor Lyondell Chemical said
Tuesday that they will combine in a $12.1 billion cash deal to create one of the
world's largest chemical companies.

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright © 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

Cincy Children's ranks 3rd;
National rating is for pediatric hospitals.U.S. News list surveyed 179
institutions and 1,500 physicians.;
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM

BYLINE: By Chelsey Levingston and RandyTucker

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 370 words


Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center ranks third best in the nation
among pediatric hospitals on U.S. News & World Report's 2013-2014 list released
Tuesday.

U.S. News & World Report named 10 hospitals, including Cincinnati, to the Honor
Roll of its annual ranking. The national news magazine evaluated hospitals on 10
specialities. The hospitals on the honor roll excel in at least three of the 10
specialty categories, according to the news magazine.

Cincinnati Children's said it has held the third-spot standing on the magazine's
Honor Roll for three consecutive years. The Cincinnati hospital ranks in the
newest annual listing behind Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and Boston
Children's Hospital.

U.S. News surveyed 179 pediatric hospitals and 1,500 physicians to come up with
the list. Eighty-seven hospitals ranked in at least one specialty.

The survey weighed data and patient outcomes. A smaller proportion of the
rankings considered reputation, asking doctors which hospital they would send
the sickest children in their specialty to regardless of location.

Cincinnati Children's ranked first for pediatric cancer; second for nephrology
and pulmonology; and third among pediatric hospitals nationwide for
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery, orthopedics, and urology, U.S.
News & World Report said. Altogether, Cincinnati Children's, including its
Butler County Liberty Campus, ranked nationally in 10 subspecialties.

The Children's Medical Center of Dayton did not participate. Quality, safety
data and patient satisfaction scores can be found on the Dayton pediatric
hospital's website, spokeswoman Kelly Kavanaugh said.

"While we were invited to participate in the survey, this particular survey is
quite labor intensive. The survey was conducted in January and early February at
a time when Day-ton Children's was experiencing a particularly high patient
volume and resources that would normally be available to complete surveys were
focused on priorities related to patient care," Kavanaugh said in an emailed
statement. "We also encourage all families to talk with their pediatrician or
family practitioner about the best options for their child should they need a
pediatric specialist."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              484 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            October 25, 2010 Monday
                                   D1 Edition

'They either fix you or you die'

BYLINE: By Marie Wilson mwilson@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 438 words


The outcome of heart problems can be quite black and white.

"They either fix you or you die," said Tom Siok, a 64-year-old South Barrington
resident who has survived four heart-related surgeries, three of them at
Naperville's Edward Hospital.

Edward Hospital was ranked first in Illinois for cardiology services by the
independent health care ratings organization HealthGrades in a national study
released last week. And for patients, that basically means the hospital has a
strong track record of fixing patients so conditions such as heart attacks and
heart failure do not cause them to die, said Dr. Vincent Bufalino, Edward
Hospital's medical director of cardiovascular services.

"It means that people can be comfortable, that they can get university-level
care in the suburbs," Bufalino said. "What we're trying to do is provide not
only efficient and effective care, but high-quality care."

But for Siok, Edward Hospital wasn't the closest to home.

"We decided on Edward because of their reputation, their expertise and their
convenience to get to and from, even though I live in South Barrington, so it's
29 miles from my house to that hospital," Siok said. "The coaching and the care
that I got helped me through a lot."

Edward Hospital provides focused care in two areas designed specifically for
heart treatments: Edward Cardiovascular Institute, which opened in 1993, and
Edward Heart Hospital, which opened in 2002 and expanded in 2007.

And the hospital's ranking as first in the state for cardiology services is a
shared honor for paramedics, emergency room doctors and surgeons alike, Bufalino
said.

"An important aspect of this is it's clearly a team award. This is really about
the entire cardiology experience," Bufalino said. "It's a validation that
focused care works."

The annual HealthGrades Hospital Quality in America study analyzed patient
outcomes from Medicare

hospitalization records between 2007 and 2009 at nearly 5,000 hospitals in the
nation to determine mortality rates for different conditions and rank hospitals
based on those rates.

Aside from its first-in-Illinois ranking for cardiology services, Edward placed
in the top 5 percent in the nation in three categories: cardiology services,
overall cardiac services and coronary interventional procedures. The national
rankings further recognize the hospital's ability to keep patients' hearts
beating, Bufalino said.

And that's something Siok, who had his most recent surgery at Edward in May to
repair a split in a vein coming out of his heart, said he appreciates.

"It's hard to believe in less than six months, I'm back to living life like I
always have."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              485 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Monitor

               Distributed by Knight/Ridder Tribune News Service

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday

Region's Hospitals Rank High In National Survey

BYLINE: Jennifer C. Smith, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


Feb. 23--McALLEN -- Rio Grande Regional Hospital and Valley Regional Medical
Center in Brownsville are rated in the top 5 percent of hospitals in the nation
due to their low mortality and complication rates, according to a nationally
recognized health care ratings company.

The hospitals received the 2006 Distinguished Hospital Award for Clinical
Excellence based on a three-year study by HealthGrades Inc. The Colorado-based
organization provides ratings and profiles of hospitals, nursing homes and
physicians to consumers, corporations, health plans and hospitals.

HealthGrades examined 39 million Medicare hospitalization records at 5,122
hospitals between 2002 and 2004. The top hospitals had mortality and
complication rates for 26 procedures and diagnoses -- including bypass surgery
and

hip-replacement surgery -- 27 percent lower than other facilities.

"Certainly this (award) is one of the big ones," said HealthGrades spokesman
Scott Shapiro. "It's very difficult to get on this list."

But their rankings should not be viewed as the sole health care rankings source,
said Texas Hospital Association spokeswoman Amanda Engler.

"Most hospitals participate in several -- and sometimes many! -- quality/patient
safety initiatives," she wrote in an e-mail. "Ideally, consumers should look at
several sources and then discuss any questions (and) concerns they may have with
their physician."

The award marks the fourth year Rio Grande Regional has received the award and
the first time for Valley Regional.

Several Rio Grande Valley facilities, including Rio Grande Regional Hospital and
Mission Regional Medical Center, have received other HealthGrades recognitions
this year and in prior years in areas such as stroke and pulmonary care and
maternity care.

For more information on HealthGrades, go to the Web site at
www.healthgrades.com.

--------

Jennifer C. Smith covers health, environment and science issues for The Monitor.
She can be reached at (956) 683-4462.

Copyright (c) 2006, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas Distributed by Knight
Ridder/Tribune Business News. For information on republishing this content,
contact us at (800) 661-2511 (U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213)
237-6515, or e-mail reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060223-MC-0223-Region-s-Hospitals-Rank-High-In-National-Survey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MC


                           Copyright 2006 The Monitor

                              486 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

FEELIN' GOOD From cancer to psychiatry, superior care's in metro area

BYLINE: BY LEONARD GREENE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 805 words


WHILE DEMOCRATS and Republicans debate the merits of -Obamacare, cost-sharing
subsidies and out-of-pocket expenses, a mother in the Bronx is trying to
determine the best place to get cancer treatment for her kid.

For her, the health care issue isn't a political tennis match where the ball
ends up bouncing in some ideological court. It is a series of critical decisions
about affordability, quality of service and compassionate care.

Luckily, she has a road map - the U.S. News & World Report annual hospital
rankings - a practical guide to the best health care in New York City and
beyond.

Among the hospitals in excellent health are New York-Presbyterian, Mount Sinai
and NYU Langone Medical Center. Each has at least 10 nationally ranked adult
specialties.

New York-Presbyterian scored the No. 1 overall spot in the New York metro area.
In cardiology and heart surgery, New York-Presbyterian was ranked nationally at
No. 3, and it took the No. 4 spot for neurology and neurosurgery.

"Every day, our staff demonstrates a remarkable commitment to providing
world-class care," said Dr. Steven Corwin, president and CEO of New
York-Presbyterian.

"Patients of all backgrounds know that they can come to us and be treated with
compassion, dignity and respect, and they will have access to highly advanced,
life-saving treatments from renowned physicians at Columbia University Medical
Center and Weill Cornell Medicine. We are proud to be recognized as one of the
best hospitals in the country."

Matthew Fink, New York-Presbyterian's neurologist-in-chief, added, "For us, it's
always been asking what's next on the horizon. How do we deliver the highest
quality of care in the most compassionate of manners?

"We thrive on being innovators," he said. "We had a huge opportunity to make new
discoveries that are going to change the lives of people. I can't begin to tell
you how great it feels to treat a patient on death's door and they're fully
recovered. That's why we've gone into this field, to help people. That is one of
the greatest feelings you can possibly get."

The staff at Mount Sinai also has been able to celebrate its success. Along with
a No. 2 Big Apple rating, the hospital ranks No. 3 nationally in geriatrics and
No. 9 in cardiology and heart surgery.

Some of the city's specialty hospitals also fared extremely well.

Memorial Sloan Kettering ranked No. 2 nationally in treatment of cancer and in
gynecology, as well as fifth in urology and 20th for ear, nose and throat.

"We are delighted and honored once again to be one of the nation's top hospitals
for cancer," said Memorial Sloan Kettering President and CEO Craig Thompson.
"But this recognition is really a reflection of an entire community of
exceptional people - our dedicated staff of almost 16,000 and our patients, who
have placed their trust in our care. We may be one of the top hospitals in the
national rankings for this year, but our patients are No. 1 to us every day."

The Hospital for Special Surgery ranked first in the nation for orthopedics and
third for rheumatology.

Although the rankings are a feather in the hospitals' caps, and a powerful
recruitment tool, the good grades play a bigger role in helping patients decide
where to get the best treatment.

"It all depends on what your diagnosis or medical need is," said Ben Harder,
chief of health analysis at U.S. News & World Report.

Hospitals were ranked in 25 fields including rheumatology, urology, diabetes and
endocrinology and gynecology.

Whether it's a mobile stroke unit dispatched from New York-Presbyterian, spine
treatment at the Hospital for Special Surgery or cancer care at Memorial Sloan
Kettering, the best hospitals have the same goals - quality care and peace of
mind for their patients.

"A lot of people get caught up in the competitiveness. Everyone wants to be the
best," Harder said. "But what shouldn't be lost sight of is that New York City
has a plethora of good hospitals. Some are good at one thing - some are good at
many things."

GRAPHIC:

New York Metro Area Hospital Rankings

1. New York-Presbyterian Hospital

2. Mount Sinai Hospital

3. NYU Langone Medical Center

4. Hackensack (N.J.) University Medical Center

5. Morristown (N.J.) Medical Center

6. St. Francis Hospital (L.I.)

7. NYU Winthrop Hospital (L.I.)

8. Montefiore Medical Center

8. Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital (N.J.)

10. Lenox Hill Hospital

National Rankings

(Top 10 finishes by specialty)

Memorial Sloan Kettering

Cancer 2

Gynecology 2

Urology 5

Hospital for

Special Surgery

Orthopedics 1

Rheumatology 3

New York-Presbyterian

Hospital

Diabetes 5

Geriatrics 6

Nephrology 4

Neurology & neurosurgery 4

Urology 8

Psychiatry 4

Rheumatology 3

Cardiology 3

Mount Sinai Hospital

Gastroenterology & GI surgery 8

Geriatrics 3

Nephrology 10

Cardiology 9

NYU Langone Medical Center

Neurology & neurosurgery 10

Orthopedics 8

Rheumatology 9

Rehabilitation 8

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;INFOGRAPHIC;LIST, New York-Presbyterian Hospital is nationally
ranked in the top 10 in eight different specialities. Right, Memorial Sloan
Kettering, No. 2 in cancer treatment; top, the Hospital for Special Surgery, No.
1 in orthopedics. DEREK REED, MARCUS SANTOS/DAILY NEWS; JEFF BACHNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Daily News, L.P.

                              487 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday

Online search listings should be regulated by Advertising Law

LENGTH: 317  words


ON MONDAY, investigators looking at the role played by the search engine Baidu
in the death of a college student announced their conclusions. A comment on
ifeng.com said on Tuesday:

Some analysts have tried excusing Baidu for its faults, claiming Wei made the
decision to go to the hospital and Baidu only offered search listings.

They should read the conclusion of the investigators, namely that Baidu's paid
rankings, from which it profited by listing search results according to the
money companies paid, had a decisive influence on Wei's decision.

Such paid rankings could affect anybody. Baidu said they have canceled 126
million pieces of paid information, which come from 2,518 medical institutions.
How many victims were there because of decisions made on this information, which
was never verified?

Merely canceling the paid medical listings is not enough. The key to preventing
more scandals is to change the mode of paid rankings, which is currently a
profit-making model of Baidu. As Baidu remains a monopoly in the domestic search
engine market, paid listings on its webpages might adversely influence many
patients, and help unqualified hospitals prosper.

More importantly, the investigators did not define paid ranking as advertising.
Actually, Baidu takes money from hospitals and mixes their information with
normal search results, with only very small indications to alert viewers to the
fact they are paid rankings. Online search listings should be regulated by the
Advertising Law. Consumers that are misguided by Baidu's paid rankings should
have the right to take the company to court.

Baidu's high executives might never have expected the scandal ignited by Wei's
death could become so influential. Now it has expressed "strong support" for the
authorities' requirements, and we hope it will truly correct its wrongdoings.
Wei's tragedy should not be repeated.

(China Daily 05/11/2016 page8)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday

Online search listings should be regulated by Advertising Law

LENGTH: 318  words


ON MONDAY, investigators looking at the role played by the search engine Baidu
in the death of a college student announced their conclusions. A comment on
ifeng.com said on Tuesday:

Some analysts have tried excusing Baidu for its faults, claiming Wei made the
decision to go to the hospital and Baidu only offered search listings.

They should read the conclusion of the investigators, namely that Baidu's paid
rankings, from which it profited by listing search results according to the
money companies paid, had a decisive influence on Wei's decision.

Such paid rankings could affect anybody. Baidu said they have canceled 126
million pieces of paid information, which come from 2,518 medical institutions.
How many victims were there because of decisions made on this information, which
was never verified?

Merely canceling the paid medical listings is not enough. The key to preventing
more scandals is to change the mode of paid rankings, which is currently a
profit-making model of Baidu. As Baidu remains a monopoly in the domestic search
engine market, paid listings on its webpages might adversely influence many
patients, and help unqualified hospitals prosper.

More importantly, the investigators did not define paid ranking as advertising.
Actually, Baidu takes money from hospitals and mixes their information with
normal search results, with only very small indications to alert viewers to the
fact they are paid rankings. Online search listings should be regulated by the
Advertising Law. Consumers that are misguided by Baidu's paid rankings should
have the right to take the company to court.

Baidu's high executives might never have expected the scandal ignited by Wei's
death could become so influential. Now it has expressed "strong support" for the
authorities' requirements, and we hope it will truly correct its wrongdoings.
Wei's tragedy should not be repeated.

(China Daily USA 05/11/2016 page11)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            East Anglian Daily Times

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday

Hospital A&E hits rankings top spot in UK

BYLINE: Jim Keenan

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 389 words


BOSSES at a Suffolk hospital are celebrating after their accident and emergency
service was ranked best in the country for waiting times.

The A&E team at West Suffolk Hospital in Bury St Edmunds managed to see, treat
and discharge 99.9% of all patients within four hours for the week ending
February 27.



The score puts the hospital at the top of the UK rankings for the week. The
national A&E target is to see, treat and release 95% of patients.

The news comes as staff at the hospital herald three months of continued
improvement against the four-hour target compared with the same period last
year.

Health chiefs say their success is down to a range of measures introduced
recently.

They include appointing additional consultants in the Emergency Assessment Unit
(EAU) so that short-stay patients remain under the care of the same consultant
throughout their entire admission; creating dedicated short-stay beds for
patients who need hospital care for less than 48 hours; changing shift patterns
so that extra doctors and emergency nurse practitioners are available to work
within A&E; increasing planning to improve handovers between wards; liaising
more closely with health and social care staff working within the community to
manage discharges more effectively.

The rankings come despite the hospital having to deal with an 8% year-to-date
increase in the number of patients coming to A&E.

Stephen Graves, hospital chief executive, said: "This significant improvement is
fantastic news for our patients and shows they are receiving timely access to
good-quality, effective care.

"It is also a testament to the hard work and determination of our staff.

"What makes this achievement even more noteworthy is that it has come at a time
when the number of patients using West Suffolk Hospital has continued to
increase, which in turn places more emphasis on working effectively and
efficiently.

"Although we are delighted with these figures, we will not become complacent and
will continue to look for ways in which we can improve our services still
further.

"Our goal now is to build on this performance over the coming months and years
for the benefit of everyone accessing emergency care at West Suffolk Hospital."

Overall, for the month of February, the hospital managed to see, treat and
discharge 98.6% of its patients within four hours.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EAD


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Star rating system proposed for hospitals;
Academic urges public rankings

BYLINE: CAROL NADER, HEALTH REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 510 words


HOSPITALS should be given star ratings based on factors such as death and
infection rates, to improve performance and help patients make better informed
choices, a leading health academic says.

Giving the best hospitals a five-star rating would be one option. Another would
be a league table ranking the best and worst performing hospitals, according to
La Trobe University dean of health sciences, Hal Swerissen

Hospitals could be rated as above, below or at acceptable standards.

Professor Swerissen, a senior adviser to Carmen Lawrence when she was federal
health minister, said areas that could be rated included surgery mortality
rates, medical errors, readmission rates and negligence when a court had found
the hospital was at fault.

He said public reporting would improve the quality of the health system and
could reduce complications and mishaps.

"I am very keen to see the health system have much stronger reporting on patient
outcomes," he said. "You would expect that it would be a publicly available,
easily accessible set of information which would be regularly reported."

The State Government releases each year a report on "sentinel events", in which
serious errors are reported, but the information does not identify hospitals.
The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare yesterday released a report on
medical indemnity, which also did not identify hospitals.

Professor Swerissen said the proposed system would help hospitals to know their
status in terms of quality and where they needed to improve.

He said hospitals had a different mix of patients, which needed to be factored
in to how they were ranked. But the difficulties of ranking were outweighed by
the potential benefits. Another concern was that incorrect data could lead to a
hospital being misrepresented.

The rating idea was supported by Justin Oakley, director of the Centre for Human
Bioethics at Monash University. But Dr Oakley said it should be taken further,
and individual surgeons should be publicly rated, similar to a system recently
introduced in Britain.

"I think the public are entitled to know where their money is going and how
effectively it's being spent, and I also think it helps patients make more
informed decisions and choices between hospitals," he said.

But others were more cautious about the proposal. Deakin University dean of
health sciences John Catford said league tables could have a demoralising effect
on hospitals and might not be helpful.

He said hospitals might be prompted to choose patients who were more likely to
get well, to improve their rating.

The Australian Medical Association Victorian branch president, Mark Yates, also
believed the proposal could give hospitals a "perverse incentive" to
discriminate against patients at greater risk of dying.

Ben Hart, spokesman for Health Minister Bronwyn Pike, said the Government
preferred a more collaborative approach rather than a "dog eat dog competitive
approach" to improving hospital performance.

"Hospitals are part of a system and need to work together instead of against
each other," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday

University Health Care No. 1 in patient care

BYLINE: By Kirsten Stewart The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 557 words


It's not as flashy as joining the PAC-10 or nabbing the Nobel Prize.

But the University of Utah's latest claim to fame is a significant mark of
excellence, say university officials.

A three-year effort to improve patient care, safety and satisfaction earned
University of Utah Health Care the top spot in the University HealthSystem
Consortium's 2010 Quality and Accountability Study, one of the most rigorous
hospital rankings in the country.

"This is a big deal," said U. Hospital CEO David Entwistle. "It says to the
citizens of Utah that you can get the same care here as you can get at the Mayos
and the Hopkins and the Brigham and Women's of the world."

There are a lot of hospital score cards out there, some of them mere marketing
tools, acknowledges Entwistle.

But the consortium's report judged the university's health system -- its
hospital, clinics and medical school, Moran Eye Center and Huntsman Cancer
Institute -- against 98 of the nation's elite academic medical centers. Unlike
the popular U.S. News & World Report ranking, which is largely a reflection of a
hospital's reputation, the consortium's is based on verifiable, federal data. It
ranks institutions on patient safety and satisfaction, mortality rates and
re-admissions using benchmarks endorsed by the Institute of Medicine.

The data are current, as of July 1. The consortium doesn't release data gathered
from institutions; it instead uses a five-star system to rank health centers.

Just three years ago, the U. was given three stars, ranking 50th out of 88
hospital systems. This year, the university catapulted to five stars and the
coveted No. 1 spot.

For Thomas Miller, the university's chief medical officer, the U.'s meteoric
rise signals a renewed focus on patient-centered, data-driven medicine.

Getting there meant researching and adopting new and improved clinical
practices. It entailed building a computer system to cull data from each patient
record to better understand where the university excelled and where it fell
short.

And it took aligning everyone around the same goals, from vice presidents to
doctors, nurses and medical students, Miller said.

The exercise led to improvements, including new protocols in the maternity ward
limiting the use forceps and suction -- and reducing injury to the mother, said
Matthew Peterson, obstetric and gynecology chairman. "It was a collaborative
effort. We made sure everybody knew what was expected, what we were measuring.
We would report on outcomes every month, noting issues and addressing them with
practitioners. And we trained all our residents on the new protocol."

In other cases, data and case reviews revealed faults in coding and
documentation, not patient care.

In 2007, for example, the U. showed a mortality rate of 1.8 times the national
average, said Carol Hadlock, U. Health Care's director of quality and patient
safety. But upon closer look, it became apparent that physicians and nurses were
neglecting to document the fact that patients were transferring to the U. for
end-of-life care.

The mortality index is meant to show how often reasonably healthy patients die
due to complications in their treatment.

Now, after accurately coding transfers, the U.'s mortality score rests at 0.6
times the national average, Hadlock said.

kstewart@sltrib.com Alt Heads:

University Health Care No. 1 in patient care

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 10, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

U-M Doctor Training Programs Rank Among Best in Nation, New National Survey

LENGTH: 669  words


Sept. 10 -- University of Michigan (U-M) Health System issued the following news
release:

Doctors nationwide rate the University of Michigan Health System as one of the
best places for young doctors to train in their chosen field, across 20 medical
specialties, according to a new ranking released today.

U-M residency programs earned a top spot in the country in all ranked
specialties, from anesthesiology and dermatology to surgery and urology. The
first-ever ranking was compiled by the physician network Doximity and U.S. News
& World Report.

In 12 of those specialties, U-M ranked in the top 10 in the country. And for new
doctors seeking to train at large public hospitals, U-M ranked even higher.

Three specialties - otolaryngology (ear, nose and throat), pathology and surgery
-- ranked at number one in the country among programs at such hospitals. See all
of U-M's specialty rankings below.

The new rankings derive from board-certified physicians' answers to a survey
about the best residency programs in their specialty. Each could name up to
five. Nearly 3,700 residency programs were mentioned in more than 50,000
physician nominations, and U-M's consistently rose to the top.

The release of the rankings comes just as this year's class of graduating
medical students prepares to apply for their residency spots, through a national
system that allows them to rank their preferred training sites, and interview at
those that select them for consideration.

Next spring, most of these students will open an envelope and learn where they
will go, in a simultaneous national event called Match Day.

In addition to the rankings, Doximity is offering medical students and
physicians access to additional data on each residency program in the 20 ranked
specialties, such as the percentage of residency alumni who went on to
sub-specialize, and the rank of past trainees in publication of research
findings.

UMHS has the fourth-largest residency program in the U.S., according to Modern
Healthcare, based on Medicare data. Training opportunities go well beyond the 20
specialties ranked by Doximity: UMHS offers physicians clinical training in 105
accredited specialties, from primary care to highly advanced subspecialties.

Currently, more than 1,199 residents are training in their specialty while
helping to care for patients at U-M's Hospitals and Health Centers, under the
supervision of U-M Medical School faculty physicians.

Additional facts about UMHS residency programs:

Some UMHS residency programs also give trainees the chance to learn and provide
care at partner hospitals, including the VA Ann Arbor Health Care System, St.
Joseph Mercy Ann Arbor Hospital, St. Joseph Mercy Chelsea Hospital and Hurley
Medical Center in Flint.

The reputation of UMHS training programs attracts a large number of medical
residents and fellows (advanced residents) from other states, who move to
Michigan for three to seven years of training. In fact, two-thirds of each
year's incoming class of residents comes from out of state.

UMHS patients benefit from the expertise of residents and fellows, as well as
the faculty physicians who supervise them. About one-third of UMHS residents are
doing second or third residencies in complex specialties available at few other
hospitals.

After residency, doctors tend to practice near where they trained. About 40
percent of UMHS residents stay in Michigan - and most of those staying are not
originally from Michigan.

In recognition of the importance of this training, state and federal governments
provide funds to teaching hospitals such as UMHS, to offset the costs associated
with involving residents in patient care while also training them.

UMHS receives funding for 765 residency slots, but supports additional positions
for residents as part of its educational and patient care mission.

Disclaimer: The full release can be found at:
(http://www.uofmhealth.org/news/archive/201409/u-m-doctor-training-programs-rank
-among-best-nation).

Source: University of Michigan (U-M) Health System

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 4, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Ochsner Health System: CareChex Names Ochsner Number Two in the Nation in
Overall Hospital Care

LENGTH: 598  words


New Delhi, Nov. 4 -- CareChex, a division of COMPARION, has named Ochsner1
number two in the country and number one in Louisiana in Overall Hospital Care
in its 2014 hospital ratings. Ochsner received the highest rating of check++ and
a score of 99.9 out of 100 in the national rankings. Over 4,000 hospitals from
across the country were ranked in the Overall Hospital Care category which
comprises ratings of all2 inpatient medical conditions and surgical procedures
treated and performed by full-service hospitals, such as cancer care, cardiac
surgery and spinal surgery. Ochsner was second only to St Mary's Hospital, which
is part of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN.



Additionally, for the second year in a row, Ochsner was named number one in the
country for liver transplants and this year was named number two for kidney
transplants. This prestigious distinction encompasses three quality measures:
patient safety indicators, mortality rates and complication rates.

Utilizing extensive clinical data from the Hospital Quality Alliance and the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, CareChex provides a comprehensive
evaluation of all components of medical quality including:

* Process of care - measures specific processes that should be followed during
heart attack and heart failure, pneumonia, outpatient procedures, surgical care
and preventive care, among others.

* Outcomes of care - measures mortality and complication rates, inpatient
quality indicators and patient safety indicators

* Patient satisfaction - measures overall hospital ratings, doctor and nurse
communication, hospital environment, and staff responsiveness, among others.

CareChex provides these findings to consumers, providers and purchasers of U.S.
medical care, including many Fortune 500 companies.

"CareChex allows the public to make informed decisions regarding the quality of
medical care provided by hospitals," said Dr. Thane Forthman, President and CEO,
CareChex a division of Comparion. "We are pleased to acknowledge that Ochsner
Medical Center has achieved an exceptionally high level of performance across
all components of medical quality. Ochsner's performance is a benchmark that
other hospitals should seek to emulate."

"The CareChex rankings demonstrate Ochsner's commitment to the highest quality
patient care," said Dr. Joseph Bisordi, Chief Medical Officer, Ochsner Health
System. "What matters most to us are positive outcomes for our patients. We want
our patients to get the best possible care so they can go home sooner and get
back to their lives and families."

"We are honored to have our programs named among the best in the country by
CareChex, which is used by some of the largest companies in the nation in order
to make informed healthcare decisions," said Warner Thomas, President and CEO,
Ochsner Health System. "Each and every member of Ochsner's team is relentlessly
focused on quality and understands that it is part of their responsibility to
make sure our patients have the best possible outcomes. I am extremely proud of
the physicians and clinical teams who provide such exceptional care to our
patients every day."

"As our transplant program continues to grow both regionally and nationally, we
remain committed to providing the best service and care for our patients," said
Dr. Nigel Girgrah, PhD, Head of Hepatology, Medical Director of the Multi-Organ
Transplant Institute. "We work with so many patients and families over long
periods of time, so we know what a difference a successful transplant can make
in someone's life. That's why we work so hard to be the best."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday

Healthgrades names top hospitals in 2015

LENGTH: 130  words

DATELINE: Washington, DC


Fierce Health Inc has issued the following news release:

The top hospitals in America have in common a combination of collaboration,
evidence-based decisions and vision, according to the latest rankings released
by Healthgrades.

The annual list ranks both the top 50 hospitals in America--those scoring in the
top 1 percent of hospitals for wide-ranging clinical excellence for at least six
consecutive years--and the top 100 hospitals--those scoring in the top 2 percent
of hospitals for wide-ranging clinical excellence for at least three consecutive
years.

California leads all other states in the rankings, with 22 in the top 100 and
eight in the top 50, followed by New York, with nine in the top 100 and five in
the top 50.
[Webinar] Using More than Claims Data for FWA Detection

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 31, 2003 Thursday

Hospital takes rank as shift of fortune

BYLINE: MELIA BOWIE

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: HUDSON


After ranking 27th last year, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point is off U.S
News & World Report's 2003 list of best hospitals for heart care and heart
surgery.

The hospital made prominent use of last year's ranking in its marketing
campaign.

"We're obviously disappointed," said Kurt Conover, the hospital's director of
business development. "But we also realize (in) making that list you're up
against some pretty big competitors. I'm just sure when they look at us again,
we'll be right back up there."

That, in fact, has happened before.

Bayonet Point first made the list in 1999, when it ranked ranked 50th in the
cardiac category. It dropped off the list in 2000 and 2001 before gaining the
27th spot in 2002.

Scores are based on reputation, mortality ratios, reputation, technology and
other factors.

The magazine's 14th annual rankings name the top 203 hospitals nationwide in 17
specialties. The list is published in the magazine's July 28 issue.

Conover said Bayonet Point received advance notice from the magazine in mid
July.

The rankings for each year are collected over a three-year period. Conover said
the hospital is not sure where it ultimately placed.

"The challenge for us is, they won't tell us if we're 51 or 151," he said. "It's
kind of hard to tell."

Editors with the magazine said even a slight change can bump a hospital.

"There's a difference of only three and a half points between number 15 and
number 50," said Avery Comarow, editor of America's Best Hospitals for U.S. News
& World Report. "It doesn't take much for a hospital to drop off the list.

Elsewhere in Florida, St. Vincent's Medical Center in Jacksonville ranked 35 and
Florida Hospital in Orlando ranked 36th for heart surgery and heart care. Delray
Medical Center in Delray Beach ranked 40th. No Tampa Bay area hospitals made the
list in the category.

Key elements considered include reputation -  150 board-certified physicians
were randomly selected from the American Medical Association and mailed a survey
form. Surveys were also conducted in 2001 and 2002 to gauge reputation.

Also considered are mortality ratios. Factors such as  nursing care and
technology also affect the scores.

"We're still receiving awards," Conover said.

Last week Solucient, a company that analyzes health care data, ranked Bayonet
Point among 2002's Top 100 hospitals for cardiovascular care.

The recent slide from U.S. New & World Report does not obscure Bayonet Point's
other achievements, Conover said.

"We're not using it as an aggressive marketing campaign," now, he said of the
2002 recognition. "But it is a nice accolade. We're still proud of the fact that
we made their list twice."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES; HERNANDO TIMES

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company

                              496 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 16, 2012 Monday

LRH ranked eighth safest Minn. hospital by Consumer Reports

BYLINE: Ryan Howard, Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 831 words


July 16--A recent Consumer Reports article ranking Lake Region Healthcare the
eighth-safest hospital in Minnesota was met with both pride and a desire to
improve by LRHC's administration.

"We're always striving to be better at all times," said LRHC CEO Larry Schulz.

The report on hospital safety and the corresponding rankings came out in the
most recent issue of Consumer Reports. In it, LRHC scored a safety rating of 62
out of 100, placing it eighth out of the 36 Minnesota hospitals ranked by the
magazine (even outscoring the Mayo Clinic location in Mankato). By comparison,
the top-ranked hospital in the nation (Billings Clinic in Billings, Mont.)
scored a 72.

Hospitals were ranked based on six different factors: complications, mortality
rates, infections, readmissions, communication upon discharge, and unnecessary
scans. In the report, LRHC's complication and mortality rates are listed as
within the national average. The magazine gave the hospital's infection numbers
the highest possible rank of "excellent," rated readmissions as "fair,"
communication as "good" and scanning as "very good."

How those factors played into the Consumer Reports rankings is unclear, as the
magazine reported that they were culled from various public sources and adjusted
based on patient types and other factors.

Though the majority of Minnesota's almost 150 hospitals went unranked due to
lack of information, other ranked hospitals close to Fergus Falls include St.
Joseph's Medical Center in Brainerd (64), Douglas County Hospital in Alexandria
(61), Sanford Bemidji Medical Center (50) and St. Mary's Hospital in Detroit
Lakes (37).

"Regardless of what the rankings are, I think safety is always a high priority
of ours," Schulz remarked.

Though LRHC strives to uphold safety standards in every possible category, the
organization is very focused right now on its partnership with a campaign known
as RARE: Reducing Avoidable Readmissions Effectively. Since readmissions in
hospitals can often mean that there was a problem during the initial stay,
RARE's goal is to encourage hospital practices that will result in 4,000 fewer
avoidable hospital readmissions from July 2011 to December 2012 -- a 20 percent
drop in the state's readmission numbers.

Communication is a big focus of LRHC's attempts to reduce readmissions.
Readmissions sometimes occur when a person is not clear about how he or she
should be taking medication or treating an injury. As such, LRHC encourages
patients to ask questions about their post-hospital treatment, and it sends out
health care professionals to check on some people who have complicated
medication regimens.

One person pleased with the infection ranking is JoAnn Bowman, LRHC's infection
prevention coordinator. As the hospital's chief "infection preventionist,"
Bowman's job has many facets: she educates staff on the procedures they need to
follow to avoid in-hospital infections, she makes sure those procedures are
being followed, she tracks information on infections in the hospital, and she
investigates the circumstances surrounding any infection that occurs.

"As long as we have even one infection, I won't be satisfied," she said.

The most common source of infection, in-hospital or out, is improperly-washed
hands, Bowman said. Hospital staff have a strict hand-washing regimen beyond
regular times like after using the bathroom or after eating.

"You either use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer or wash your hands in a sink
when you come to work, when you come into a patient room, before you touch a
patient, after (taking) a pair of gloves off, and after touching a patient," she
said, noting that those steps alone go a long way in reducing infections.

Another way the hospital reduces infections is through a series of practices
called "bundles." When conducting a surgical procedure, all involved staff
follow a series of steps to make sure the surgery site remains sterile.

One of the most sensitive procedures involves the placement of a central line IV
-- an IV that is routed to the chest. Since central line infections can
essentially result in blood poisoning, the bundle for central line procedures is
in-depth, involving a draped area, sterilized gloves and gowns, masks, head
coverings and a daily check on the IV entry point.

Since Bowman started her current position in 1998 (before the bundles were even
instituted), the hospital has not had any central line infections.

As safety methods improve, so do the challenges.

"Our patients are older and sicker, and the older you are and the sicker you are
and the more medical problems you have, the higher your risk of infection," said
Bowman.

Her response and LRHC's response is to work even harder to find ways to take the
risk out of hospital stays.

"My responsibility is to the community," she said.

___ (c)2012 the Fergus Falls Daily Journal (Fergus Falls, Minn.) Visit the
Fergus Falls Daily Journal (Fergus Falls, Minn.) at www.fergusfallsjournal.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120716-1FF-LRH-ranked-eighth-safest-Minn-hospital
-by-Consumer-Reports-0716-20120716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FF


                Copyright 2012 Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn

                              497 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                          The Providence Journal, R.I.

                             April 8, 2005, Friday

R.I. hospitals tops for heart treatment

BYLINE: By Felice J. Freyer

LENGTH: 1075 words



Rhode Island hospitals are leading the pack nationwide in measurements of how
well they treat heart attacks, heart failure and pneumonia.

According to new federal data on more than 4,200 hospitals around the country,
Rhode Island's 10 acute-care hospitals -- as a group -- rank number one overall
in how often they take certain steps known to produce the best outcomes for the
three conditions studied.

That doesn't necessarily mean that Rhode Island has the best hospitals. The
measures focused on narrowly defined aspects of care, not everything that a
hospital does. But the state's high ranking does reflect the success of the
hospitals' longstanding efforts, instigated by a 1998 state law, to work on
those measures of quality.

"We certainly are a shining star when you look at the comparison across the
country," said Marcia K. Petrillo, chief executive officer of Quality Partners
of Rhode Island, an agency hired by the federal government to monitor and
improve the care of Medicare beneficiaries. " . . . Overall the Rhode Island
hospitals are providing some of the best care in the country, for these
conditions."

"I think we have some of the better hospitals in the country," agreed Dr. David
R. Gifford, the acting state health director who was previously medical director
at Quality Partners.

The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services last week unveiled Hospital
Compare (www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov), a new Web tool that compares how often
some 4,200 hospitals around the country followed widely accepted guidelines for
the care of heart attacks, heart failure and pneumonia.

The state has been publishing the same information about Rhode Island hospitals
since 2002, but this is the first time that meaningful national comparisons have
been available.

The federal government did not study how patients fared -- whether they died or
got better -- because the severity of a patient's condition can affect the
outcome as much as what the hospital does. Instead, the government looked at
"the process of care," identifying 17 actions that have been proven to increase
a patient's likelihood of surviving those three conditions.

Those actions include giving heart-attack patients aspirin and beta blockers
upon arrival, treating heart-failure patients with ACE inhibitors (drugs that
reduce the heart's workload), and giving pneumonia patients antibiotics within
four hours of arrival.

The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services offered hospitals a 0.4 percent
increase in reimbursement if they would report how often they met 10 of the
guidelines, and nearly all complied.

Rhode Island hospitals had gotten a head start in this effort thanks to 1998
state law, filed by Lt. Gov. Charles J. Fogarty during his last term in the
state Senate, which required the Health Department to measure and report on the
quality of care in every health-care institution. The department started with
hospitals. Eventually Rhode Island became one of seven states in a pilot project
testing the procedures for collecting and reporting the data.

Hospitals in Rhode Island, as a group, ranked above the national average on each
of the 10 measures and took first place in five of them. Their average rank was
4.5, the highest in the nation. (Massachusetts came in second.) Rhode Island's
hospitals were weakest in meeting the guidelines calling for elderly patients to
be vaccinated against pneumonia and to receive an antibiotic within four hours.

"Rhode Island hospitals worked together collaboratively from the get-go," said
Health Director Gifford. "They should really be applauded for that. [The high
ranking] shows that they responded to this initiative and did a good job."

The federal government has billed Hospital Compare as a tool for consumers to
choose a hospital, but Gifford doesn't agree with that. Such data is more useful
as a prod to get hospitals to improve.

"The report tells us where we need to be targeting our efforts," Gifford said.
"It doesn't answer that global question everyone is interested in, which is,
'Who's the best?' "

The differences among hospitals aren't significant enough to justify traveling
farther for a better one, he said. But, he said, consumers can use Hospital
Compare to become educated about the care they should receive and check with
doctors to make sure that they're getting it.

"I think this is yet another comparison tool that a consumer can use," agreed
Arthur J. Sampson, Newport Hospital president and chairman of the Hospital
Association of Rhode Island. "It shouldn't be the only one. You should talk to
your doctor, talk to your nurse, talk to your neighbor."

Rhode Island also shines in a different computer-based snapshot of health-care
quality, which was released Monday. The federal Agency for Healthcare Research
and Quality ranked the states on 14 criteria, such as the percentage of adults
over 50 who receive colonoscopies and the percentage of home-health patients who
had to be hospitalized. The rankings can be found at
www.qualitytools.ahrq.gov/qualityreport/state.

Rhode Island was number one in the nation in the percentage of women who receive
prenatal care in the first three months of pregnancy. The state also had the
third lowest percentage of nursing home patients who were in moderate to severe
pain. The state's lowest rankings concerned care of respiratory diseases, but
these data were a couple of years old, and performance has since improved.

Gifford said the state's high ranking on controlling pain among nursing home
residents resulted from a concerted effort by several groups, including Brown
University and Quality Partners, to help nursing homes develop ways to diagnose
and alleviate pain.

"What you're seeing in these 14 measures," said Dr. Carolyn M. Clancy, AHRQ
director, "is shared accountability across health professions. . . . The buck
doesn't stop at any precisely defined point. There's a huge opportunity for
leadership in many areas. Your state has demonstrated they can do that."



-----

To see more of the The Providence Journal, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.projo.com. Copyright (c) 2005, The Providence Journal, R.I.

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: PJ-HOSPITAL-RANKINGS-20050408

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                  Copyright 2005 The Providence Journal, R.I.

                              498 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                  ROP Edition

LOCAL IN BRIEF

SECTION: News; pg. 12

LENGTH: 386 words


South Shore Hospital given high ranking

WEYMOUTH - U.S. News and World Report ranked South Shore Hospital the third-best
hospital in Massachusetts.

The magazine also recognized South Shore Hospital with national rankings in
three specialties - diabetes and endocrinology, ear, nose and throat and
urology.

The hospital was one of 148 hospitals nationwide to achieve national rankings.

The magazine ranked eight other South Shore Hospital specialties as
high-performing - cancer, gastroenterology, geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics and pulmonology.

Cancer patients can learn about cosmetic techniques

PLYMOUTH - Jordan Hospital will host the American Cancer Society's "Look Good
... Feel Better" program from 3 to 5 p.m. Monday, Aug. 13, in the Breast Center
Conference Room, 275 Sandwich St.

The free program teaches cancer patients hands-on cosmetic techniques to help
them cope with appearance-related side effects from chemotherapy and radiation
treatments.

All participants will receive a free makeup kit.

Registration is required. To register, call Maureen Kwash at 508-897-4339 or
email Maureen.Kwash@cancer.org

Bicycling event will aid medical research

HINGHAM - The Tour de South Shore, a fundraising bicycling event, will be held
Sept. 22 at Wompatuck State Park in Hingham. The 50-mile ride will begin at 7:30
a.m.; the 25-mile ride will start at 9 a.m.

The routes go through Cohasset, Scituate and Norwell, and both end at the park.
The money raised will benefit Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis
research.

For more information, call 978-930-9734. To register, visit
http://www.firstgiving.com/ mccourtevents/ tourdesouthshore.

Accreditation for South Shore Hospital

WEYMOUTH- South Shore Hospital received Cycle III Chest Pain Center
Accreditation from the Society of Chest Pain Centers.

The hospital is the only accredited center in southeastern Massachusetts.

The accreditation means the hospital will minimize the time from onset of
symptoms to diagnosis and treatment; treat patients more quickly during the
critical window of time when the integrity of the heart muscle can be preserved;
and monitor patients when it is not certain that they are having a heart attack
in order to ensure that they are not sent home too quickly or needlessly
admitted to the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Patriot Ledger

                              499 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Barnes-Jewish ranks No. 9 among best hospitals

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 80 words

DATELINE: 0


Barnes-Jewish Hospital and Washington University School of Medicine have been
ranked ninth in this year's U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll of America's
Best Hospitals. The hospital was ranked 12th last year.

Of 4,861 U.S. hospitals, only 21 made the Honor Roll, which includes high
rankings in a least six specialties. Barnes had rankings in 15 specialties. The
guide is available online at usnews.com/besthospitals. The August issue of the
magazine hits the newsstands Monday.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
