                              105 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday

Scranton's Mercy Hospital ranked in the nation's top 50 best by independent
HealthGrades Inc.

BYLINE: James Haggerty, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 358 words


Mar. 2--A heath ratings agency lists Mercy Hospital of Scranton among the
nation's 50 best hospitals, ranking its patient outcomes among the top 5 percent
of medical facilities nationwide.

HealthGrades Inc., an independent organization that rates medical care and is
based in Golden, Colo., said the rankings track results from 5,000 U.S.
hospitals.

Mercy, which also was included in the rankings in 2009, is one of seven
Pennsylvania hospitals to receive the designation. Lehigh Valley Hospital near
Allentown, Easton Hospital and St. Luke's Hospital in Bethlehem also were
included.

"We're very proud of the distinction and the hard work of many dedicated
individuals," said Kevin Cook, Mercy president and chief operating officer. "I
would hope it's comforting for the community to know that nationally recognized
care is available right here in our community."

The designation is based on clinical results, including risk-adjusted mortality
and complication rates. HealthGrades issued the ranking after reviewing results
from about 130 million Medicare patient records from 1999 to 2008.

HealthGrades looked at results from 26 conditions and procedures, ranging from
bowel obstruction and respiratory failure to heart surgery and stroke.

Hospitals ranked in the top 50 had an average mortality rate 27 percent lower
than other facilities and a complication rate averaging 8 percent below others,
HealthGrades reported.

The organization also provides quality rankings, profiles and cost information
about physicians, nursing homes and prescription drugs.

Contact the writer: jhaggerty@timesshamrock.comMercy Hospital

--Has about 250 beds.

--Employs about 1,000 people.

--Network includes more than 600 doctors in 40 specialties.

To see more of The Times-Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thetimes-tribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Times-Tribune,
Scranton, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100302-YT-Scranton-s-Mercy-Hospital
-ranked-in-the-nation-s-top-50-best-by-independent-HealthGrades-Inc-0302

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                        Copyright 2010 The Times-Tribune

