                              108 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

Around the Valley: July 18

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 513 words


SAN GABRIEL VALLEY

Three area hospitals honored in rankings

Three area hospitals were listed this week in the 2012-2013 U.S. News Best
Hospitals rankings.

The three are: Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, City of Hope in Duarte,
and Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier.

Huntington Memorial was ranked 18th nationally in orthopedics and 49th
nationally in urology. It also was ranked high-performing in nine adult
specialties, according to a U.S. News release. It was also ranked the fourth
best hospital in the Los Angeles region and the eighth best in California.

City of Hope was ranked 23rd nationally in cancer treatment. It also was
high-performing in three adult specialties. And it ranked the eighth best
hospital in the L.A. area and the 14th best in California.

Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital performed nearly at the level of nationally
ranked U.S. News Best Hospitals in four adult specialties. It was ranked the
22nd best hospital in the L.A. region and the 34th best hospital in California.

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings feature data on nearly 5,000 hospitals.
The complete rankings can be seen athealth.usnews.com/best-hospitals .

BALDWIN PARK

Pedestrian killed on 10 Freeway

A Fontana man who was walking on the 10 Freeway in Baldwin Park was killed
Monday night when he was hit by two cars in a hit-and-run.

Ruben Haro Jr., 20, was walking south on the westbound No. 4 lane, the slow
lane, of the 10 Freeway just west of Frazier Street about 11p.m. when was hit by
a brown compact car, according to a California Highway Patrol statement.

The impact threw Haro into the air, and he was struck again as he fell to the
roadway by a 2008 Toyota Avalon that was behind the first car, the CHP release
said.

The driver of the second car, a 47-year-old El Monte man, stopped immediately
and called 911 at 10:57 p.m. to report the collision, CHP said. The driver of
the first car did not stop and was last seen traveling west on the 10 Freeway.

The reason Haro was walking on the freeway was not known and is under
investigation, CHP said.

Haro was pronounced dead at the scene at 11:17 p.m., the report said.

Three westbound lanes of the 10 Freeway were closed for about two hours during
the investigation and cleanup, CHP said.

The brown compact car and its driver have not been located.

CHP asked witnesses to call the CHP Baldwin Park office at 626-338-1164 or
323-982-4900 after hours.

AZUSA

Low-cost pet clinic to offer licenses, vaccines

Residents with pets will have the opportunity to get them licensed and
vaccinated at a low-cost clinic at City Hall on Wednesday.

Vaccinations will be available to Azusa residents from 6 to 7:30 p.m., for $10
to $22, depending on the vaccination. Pet licensing costs will be available for
$5 to $60, depending on the pet. A senior citizen discount will be available for
residents older than 60.

Residents of Azusa and unincorporated Los Angeles County will be able to get
their dogs microchipped for free at the event.

The clinic will be held behind City Hall. For more information, call
626-812-5200.

From staff reports

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

