                              112 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday

Around Whittier: July 27

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 649 words


WHITTIER

U.S. News and World Report recognizes PIH

U.S. News & World Report announced Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in its
Best Hospitals rankings.

PIH is ranked number 22 among 140 hospitals in the Los Angeles Metro area, and
number 34 among the nearly 500 hospitals in California.

U.S. News & World Report's findings also noted that PIH performed well in the
specialty areas of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Nephrology and Pulmonology and
Ear, Nose and Throat.

This year's Best Hospitals, the 23rd annual edition, showcases more than 720 of
the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals.

Complete rankings and methodology are available athttp://health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals .

The rankings were published in collaboration with RTI International, a research
organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C. Highlights of the 2012-13
rankings will appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, to go on
sale in August.

WHITTIER

Whittier Museum sets annual flea market

The Whittier Museum is hosting its annual flea market from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Saturday in the Whittier Museum parking lot, 6755 Newlin Ave.

A member's only sale will take place from 6 to 8 p.m. today for members at the
$100 level.

The Whittier Museum is accepting flea market items until noon Friday.

For information, call 562-945-3871.

LA HABRA HEIGHTS

Dog Days of Summer set for July 28 at The Park

The annual Dog Days of Summer will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday at The
Park, 1885 Hacienda Road.

The free event sponsored by the city will feature agility demos, flyball demos,
sheep-herding demos, Frisbee demos, police dog demos, vendor booths, rescue
organizations, a low-cost dog washing booth, pet education booths, dog
photograph booth and sheep herding instinct testing.

A dog costume contest and dog trick contest will also be offered.

A weiner dog race will be held at 2 p.m.

For information, contact Krystal Emery, 562-694-8090 or
visitwww.petprescriptionteam.com/events.html .

WHITTIER

'Desert Waters' artist showing at the Framery

The "Desert Waters" solo show will premiere the latest work of California artist
S.J.W. Grogan beginning Saturday at the Framery Fine Art Gallery, 13105 Whittier
Blvd.

The show will run until Saturday.

Gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday.

An artist reception will take place from 4 to 7 p.m. Saturday.

For information, call the gallery at 562-693-5714 or visitwww.sjwgrogan.com .

WHITTIER

100 Gay Men and Aids Project dance Sunday

100 Gay Men and the Whittier Rio Hondo Aids Project presents Classic T dance
from 3 to 10 p.m. Sunday at The Bottle Room, 6741 Greenleaf Ave.

Live entertainment will be provided by deejay Randy Whitteker.

Proceeds will benefit 100 Gay Men.

For information, call The Bottle Room at 562-696-8000 or visitwww.100gaymen.org
.

WHITTIER

Rotary reviews United Nations Conference

Dr. George Prather and Dr. Judith Prather will address the Whittier Sunrise
Rotary Club at 8 a.m. Tuesday at the Friendly Hills Country Club, 8500
Villaverde Drive.

The doctors will present a review of The United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development which was held in June of this year.

The community is invited to attend, but reservations are needed due to limited
space.

There is a charge for breakfast which is served at 7:30a.m., but no charge for
the program.

For information, call 562-693-7674.

LA MIRADA

Donate used items to sheriff's volunteers group

Los Angeles County Sheriff Volunteers on Patrol serving La Mirada will host a
Goodwill Donation Drive fundraiser from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Aug. 4 in the City
Hall parking lot, 13700 La Mirada Blvd.

Donate new and clean clothing, housewares, furniture and other miscellaneous
items.

VOPS will receive money for every trailer full of donated items.

For information, call the La Mirada Community Sheriff's Station at 562-902-2960.

Send submissions for "Around Whittier" tonews.wdn@sgvn.com .

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

