                              149 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                  ALL EDITION

BUFFETT HAS STAKE IN LEE ENTERPRISES

BYLINE: State Journal staff, wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 519 words


Billionaire Warren Buffett's company now owns about 3.2 percent of Lee
Enterprises' stock as Berkshire Hathaway's newspaper holdings continue to grow.
Buffett's Omaha-based company disclosed owning 1.66 million shares of Lee's
stock on Tuesday because the Securities and Exchange Commission refused to let
him keep this investment confidential.

The SEC often lets Buffett conceal investment moves while he's making them
because so many investors try to copy him. In after-hours trading Tuesday, Lee
stock was up more than 35 percent.

Last month, Berkshire announced a deal to buy 63 newspapers from Media General
for $142 million. And Buffett has said Berkshire may buy more newspapers in the
future despite the challenges the industry faces.

Lee is a Davenport, Iowa-based publisher of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and
other newspapers. Lee owns half of Capital Newspapers, publisher of the
Wisconsin State Journal and The Capital Times in Madison.

Hospital ranked among the top 50

UW Hospital's American Family Children's Hospital is ranked among the top 50
children's hospitals in seven specialties this year by U.S. News and World
Report.

The rankings: orthopedics, 23rd; pulmonology, 25th; gastroenterology, 26th;
cancer, 29th; neonatology, 29th; urology, 39th; diabetes/endocrinology, 41st.
The rankings are based on survival rates, infection rates, nurse staffing,
sub-specialist availability and other information.

Web: health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings

CUNA Mutual app gets recognition

Madison-based CUNA Mutual Group again has been named to the CIO 100, an annual
list of the top companies worldwide for operational and strategic excellence in
information technology.

This year's honored project for CUNA Mutual was its smartphone-based loan
technology, a recently released mobile Web application that credit union members
can use to apply for a loan using their smartphones.

Through May 31, the company had used the mobile app to handle $290 million in
loan applications. This year's award marks the fifth time CUNA Mutual has been
on the CIO 100 list since 2004.

BRIEFLY

COMMODITIES: Gold for August delivery rose $3 Tuesday to settle at $1,616.90 an
ounce. July silver rose 39.8 cents to $28.405 an ounce. July copper fell 1.8
cents to $3.289 a pound. In July contracts, wheat fell 14.50 cents to $6.1325 a
bushel, corn fell half a cent to $5.675 a bushel, and soybeans rose 9.5 cents to
$13.495 a bushel.

EXPANSION: Regal Beloit Corp. plans a $6 million building expansion at its Unico
facility in Caledonia, creating up to 175 new jobs, according to Gov. Scott
Walker's office. The expansion will nearly double the workforce and size of the
facility. The Beloit-based company is eligible for up to $695,000 in tax credits
through the Wisconsin Economic Development Corp. Unico makes industrial drive
products.

KIA RECALL: Kia Motors America is recalling nearly 73,000 Rio small cars to fix
a problem with the front-passenger air bag. The recall affects cars from the
2006 to 2008 model years. A sensor inside the front passenger seat can crack and
fail to detect whether a child is sitting in the seat.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2012



CORRECTION:Â U.S. News and World Report recalculated some of its latest rankings
of top children's hospitals. UW Hospital's American Family Children's Hospital
is 27th in pulmonology, 28th in neonatology, 32nd in gastroenterology and 33rd
in cancer. Those rankings are slightly different from the ones U.S. News
initially released, as reported in a brief item on the front page of the
Business section June 6.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

