                              185 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Kokomo Tribune (Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 10, 2009 Sunday

Kokomo Tribune, Ind., Ken De La Bastide column: St. Joseph makes Top 5

BYLINE: Ken De La Bastide, Kokomo Tribune, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 385 words


May 10--St. Joseph Hospital continues to move up in the rankings of the Best
Places to Work in Indiana.

This is the third year St. Joseph has competed in the Indiana Chamber Commerce
ranking.

The first time the local hospital ranked 13th in the category for businesses
with more than 250 employees. Last year, it was ranked 10th, and this year
climbed to fifth.

In addition, St. Joseph is the highest-ranking hospital on the list and the only
health care employer in Kokomo to receive the award. Only 70 Indiana companies
have received the designation of Best Place to Work in Indiana by creating a
strong workplace culture in which employees feel valued.

"We were competing with some pretty amazing companies, and it is an honor to
achieve the ranking of fifth Best Place to Work in Indiana," said Kathy Young,
hospital president. "The ranking truly belongs to our associates because they
are the ones that make St. Joseph special. They take pride in being the best,
and they consistently go above and beyond to create an exceptional experience
for our patients and each other."

The program honors the top companies in the state, as determined through
employer reports and comprehensive employee surveys. Winners were selected from
two categories: small- to medium-sized companies between 25 and 249 employees,
and large-sized companies consisting of 250 or more employees. The actual
rankings of the top Indiana companies were announced at the awards dinner May 5
at the Indiana Roof Ballroom in downtown Indianapolis.

Young sent an e-mail to other employees notifying them of the award.

"You know that I firmly believe it is all of you who make this place so
special," Young said. "The care you show our patients and each other is
phenomenal."

Hospital spokeswoman Marla Achor said the hospital will not decide until later
this year if it will continue to participate in the "Best Places to Work"
rankings.

To see more of the Kokomo Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.kokomotribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, Kokomo Tribune, Ind.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090510-KO-Kokomo-Tribune-Ind-Ken-De-La-Bastide-column-0510

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KO


                         Copyright 2009 Kokomo Tribune

