                              242 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

NCMC ranked in top 100 hospitals in nation

BYLINE: Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 836 words


Oct. 24--Healthgrades, essentially the consumer reports of health care, has
ranked North Colorado Medical Center's pulmonary, gastroenterology and critical
care programs as some of the best among America's 100 best hospitals, according
to a news release.

The findings are part of American Hospital Quality Outcomes 2013: Healthgrades
Report to the Nation, which evaluates the performance of roughly 4,500 hospitals
nationwide in 28 common conditions and procedures, the release stated.

The report ranks Colorado hospitals as high and average compared to other
hospitals throughout the country, though the public document doesn't name
hospitals specifically.

The NCMC rankings for critical care and gastrointestinal care are now the second
year both NCMC programs have been named among America's best, according to the
release.

Healthgrades recognitions for NCMC also include top 10 rankings for a variety of
heart and pulmonary services.

The rankings are based on patient outcomes from 2009-11.

Cardiac

--Ranked No. 6 in Colorado for Overall Cardiac Services in 2013

--Ranked No. 7 in Colorado for Cardiac Surgery in 2013

--Ranked No. 7 in Colorado for Cardiology Services in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Overall Cardiac Services for four
years in a row (2010-2013) (Ranked 6 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Cardiac Surgery for two years in a row
(2012-2013) (Ranked 7 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Cardiology Services for four years in
a row (2010-2013) (Ranked 7 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Coronary Bypass Surgery for two years in a row
(2012-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Heart Attack for three years in a row
(2011-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Heart Failure for eight years in a row
(2006-2013)

Neurosciences

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Stroke for six years in a row (2008-2013)

Pulmonary

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Pulmonary Care Excellence Award for five years
in a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Overall Pulmonary Services
for two years in a row (2012-2013)

--Ranked No. 1 in Colorado for Overall Pulmonary Services in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for Overall Pulmonary Services for seven
years in a row (2007-2013) (Ranked 1 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Overall Pulmonary Services for five years in a row
(2009-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease for
seven years in a row (2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pneumonia for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

Gastrointestinal

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Gastrointestinal Care Excellence Award for four
years in a row (2010-2013)

--Recipient of the HealthGrades General Surgery Excellence Award for three years
in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Overall GI Services for three
years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for GI Medical Treatment for
three years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 percent in the Nation for General Surgery for three
years in a row (2011-2013)

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for GI Services in 2013

--Ranked No. 3 in Colorado for General Surgery in 2013

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for GI Medical Treatment in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for GI Services for seven years in a row
(2007-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 in Colorado for General Surgery for three years in a
row (2011-2013) (Ranked 3 in 2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 10 in Colorado for GI Medical Treatment for seven years
in a row (2007-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for GI Medical Treatment for two years in a row
(2012-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for GI Procedures and Surgeries for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of GI Bleed for six years in a row
(2008-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Bowel Obstruction for four years in a row
(2010-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pancreatitis in 2013

Critical Care

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Critical Care Excellence Award for five years in
a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked Among the Top 5 percent in the Nation for Critical Care for five years
in a row (2009-2013)

--Ranked No. 2 in Colorado for Critical Care in 2013

--Ranked Among the Top 5 in Colorado for Critical Care for five years in a row
(2009-2013) (Ranked 2 in 2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Overall Critical Care for five years in a row
(2009-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Sepsis for seven years in a row
(2007-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Pulmonary Embolism for six years in a row
(2008-2013)

--Five-Star Recipient for Treatment of Respiratory Failure for seven years in a
row (2007-2013)

Emergency Medicine

--Recipient of the HealthGrades Emergency Medicine Excellence Award for three
years in a row (2010-2012)

___ (c)2012 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121024-GY-NCMC-ranked-in-top-100-hospitals-in-nation-1024-20121024

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2012 Greeley Tribune

