                              245 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            October 30, 2015 Friday
                                 Early Edition

Ottawa Hospital falls to seventh in ranking

BYLINE: Don Butler, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 396 words


It certainly sounds like good news: The Ottawa Hospital ranks seventh out of 600
hospitals in Canada in the latest version of a respected list of the country's
top research hospitals.

But as recently as the 2012 fiscal year, the hospital's two dynamic research
centres - the Ottawa Hospital Research Institute and the Ottawa Heart Institute
Research Corporation - had pushed it to fourth-best in the nation.

It slipped to fifth in 2013, and now sits seventh in the 2014 list, published
this week by Research Infosource Inc., Canada's top source of RD intelligence.

According to Research Infosource, The Ottawa Hospital spent $123.7 million on
research in 2013-14. But that was down by about $6 million from 2012-13 and by
$19 million from 2011-12.

Spending per researcher at the hospital's two institutes was $332,500, 13th-best
among the country's top-40 research hospitals and substantially less than the
hospital has spent in recent years. In the 2012 fiscal year, for example, the
hospital spent $507,400 on research for every researcher on staff.

The Ottawa Hospital spent 9.1 per cent of its total income on research in 2014,
a number bested by 17 other hospitals on the top-40 list.

By comparison, the Hospital for Sick Children spent more than one-quarter of its
income on research, and Toronto's University Health Networks, ranked the
country's top research hospital, spent 15.5 per cent.

The hospital says its decline in the rankings was due to the end of an unusually
large grant it received in 2011-12.

"We knew that grant had a big impact on our numbers," said Rob Hanlon, the
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute's chief operating officer.

Hanlon said the hospital expects its ranking to rise in future, thanks to some
substantial funding it has received recently.

In July, for example, the hospital's scientists received $28 million in new
grants from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research.

"We were close to double the national average in terms of the average success
rate of our scientists compared to their peers across Canada," Hanlon said.
"That alone is a really good indicator that we're on the right track."

The hospital's research spending rose by eight per cent in 2014-15, which could
boost it into the top five in next year's rankings, Hanlon said.

dbutler@ottawacitizen.com twitter.com/ButlerDon !@COPYRIGHT=Â© 2015 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

