                              300 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 16, 2010 Friday

Mayo No. 2 again in U.S. News and World Report rankings

BYLINE: Jeff Hansel, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 566 words


July 16--Mayo Clinic in Rochester has once again been named the second-best
hospital in the country.

Johns Hopkins Hopsital in Baltimore, Md. has for 20 years held its No. 1
position and continues that streak in the 2010-2011 ranking by U.S. News & World
Report.

"For 2010-11 we analyzed 4,852 hospitals, virtually every one in the United
States, in 16 specialties from cancer and heart disease to respiratory disorders
and urology," the magazine reports.

Only 152 centers placed among the 16 specialty rankings. Fourteen "Honor Roll"
hospitals had very high scores in six or more specialties.

Mayo was named among the top 10 hospitals in the country in 14 different
specialties. Separate from Mayo in Rochester, the Mayo campuses in both Arizona
and in Florida also made the list.

The Mayo hospital in Jacksonville, Fla., was ranked 40th in gastroenterology and
44th in neurology and neurosurgery.

Mayo Clinic Hospital in Phoenix ranked 26th in gastroenterology, 37th in kidney
disorders and 45th in diabetes and endocrinology.

As in past years, Mayo bested Johns Hopkins in some specialties. Mayo was ranked
as the best hospital in the country for diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology and in kidney disorders.

The top five hospitals in 2010-2011 in the United States in order, according to
U.S. News & World Report:

1. Johns Hopkins in Baltimore.

2. Mayo Clinic in Rochester.

3. Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

4. Cleveland Clinic in Ohio.

5. Ronald Reagon UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles

The magazine says 83 percent of Rochester patients who sought care at Mayo said
they would recommend the clinic's hospitals (Saint Marys Hospital, Rochester
Methodist Hospital or Mayo Eugenio Litta Children's Hospital) to friends and
family.

Only 2 percent said they would "definitely not" recommend Mayo. The state
average in Minnesota for "definitely not" was 3 percent ,and the national
average was 6 percent.

U.S. News points out that even the best hospitals in the country make mistakes.

"No matter how skilled or deep their expertise, even "best hospitals" don't do
everything right," the magazine reports. But when specialty care is needed,
these top hospitals are the ones people seek out.

Mayo in Rochester also ranked high in pediatric care (13th in pediatric
neurology and neurosurgery, 16th in pediatric heart and heart surgery, 16th in
pediatric orthopedics, 17th in pediatric diabetes and endocrinology, 18th in
pediatric urology, 21st in pediatric kidney disorders, and 24th in pediatric
gastroenterology).

Although Olmsted Medical Center in Rochester did not make the list, it was
reviewed. U.S. News says 82 percent of OMC patients say they would definitely
recommend the hospital to friends and family. The state average of people who
said that was 71 percent -- and the national average only 68 percent.

Health reporter Jeff Hansel (285-7615) writes a blog Pulse on Health at
www.postbulletin.com. Follow him on Twitter @JeffHansel

To see more of the Post-Bulletin, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.postbulletin.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100716-RC-Mayo-No-2-again-in-U-S-News-World-Report-rankings-20100716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2010 Post-Bulletin

