                              30 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 15, 2012 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Brigham and Women's Hospital Ranks Among Top 10 Hospitals in the Nation

LENGTH: 314  words


New Delhi, Sept. 15 -- Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) is once again
recognized as one of the nation's top hospitals, ranking ninth in the 2012 U.S.
News & World Report Honor Roll of America's Best Hospitals. This year marks the
20th consecutive year that Brigham and Women's Hospital has appeared on the
Honor Roll.



"Our presence for the past two decades on the U.S. News & World Report Honor
Roll serves as a tangible symbol of our community's dedication to the mission of
this great academic medical center," said Betsy Nabel MD, president of BWH.
"This ranking is also a clear reflection of the commitment and talent of our
staff and employees who day in and day out deliver the best, safest care
possible to our patients and their families."

In this year's ranking of the nation's top hospitals, BWH ranked among the top
10 in seven categories: Cancer, Cardiology and Heart Surgery, Diabetes and
Endocrinology, Gynecology, Nephrology, Pulmonology and Rheumatology. BWH placed
in the top 20 in Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, and Neurology and Neurosurgery.

Once again, BWH and Massachusetts General Hospital were the only hospitals in
New England to be on the top 10 Honor Roll, making Boston the only city in the
country to have more than one hospital in the top 10.

U.S. News analyzed data on nearly 4,800 medical centers to produce this year's
rankings of hospitals that demonstrate unusually high expertise across multiple
specialties. Only 148 hospitals earned a national ranking in one or more of the
16 specialties, which include cancer, cardiology & heart surgery, orthopedics
and pulmonology. Just 17 evaluated for the 2012-2013 rankings qualified scoring
at or near the top in at least six of 16 specialties. The rankings, now
available online at www.usnews.com/besthospitals, will be published in the
magazine's August issue as part of it 2011-2012 Best Hospitals guide.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


