                              308 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Record (New Jersey)

                          September 13, 2005, Tuesday

Hospitals improve 'report card' scores

BYLINE: By Bob Groves

LENGTH: 763 words



Most New Jersey hospitals improved their treatment of heart attack and pneumonia
patients in 2004 compared with the previous year, health officials said Monday.

Overall, the 82 acute-care hospitals in New Jersey continued to score higher in
caring for heart attack patients than in pneumonia care, though the gap narrowed
last year, according to the state's second annual "report card" on hospital
performance in the two clinical areas.

"The report shows that hospital care statewide is clearly getting better, and
quite rapidly in some cases," Health Commissioner Fred M. Jacobs said in a
statement.

"However, hospitals are still missing too many opportunities to give the kind of
care that can improve health and save lives," Jacobs said.

The New Jersey 2005 Hospital Performance Report scored the hospitals on their
use of eight procedures in treating more than 61,000 patients for whom such
procedures were deemed appropriate. The five procedures for heart attacks were
giving aspirin to the patient on arrival and discharge from the hospital, giving
beta blockers on arrival and discharge, and giving an ACE inhibitor upon
discharge.

Pneumonia scores were based on three care measures: the percentage of eligible
patients whose oxygen levels were checked within 24 hours of arrival, the
percentage who received antibiotics within four hours of arrival and the
percentage who were screened for pneumonia vaccination and immunized, if
appropriate.

Although about half of the 22 hospitals in Bergen, Passaic, Morris and Hudson
counties slipped in their statewide rankings since last year, the majority
improved their overall scores in this year's report.

The most remarkable improvement in heart attack scores was shown by Chilton
Memorial in Pompton Plains, in Morris County, which leaped to second place from
70th, with a 100 percent overall score for 2004, up from 82 percent overall in
2003.

In pneumonia, Chilton moved up to eighth place from 33rd with 92 percent overall
score in 2004, up from 77 percent the year before.

"We're very proud" of the scores, Chilton spokesman Brian White said Monday.
"It's the result of a lot of hard work, partnering our physicians in the
emergency room and in cardiac care."

However, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Department of Health and Senior
Services, which issued the report, cautioned that comparing overall scores is a
better indicator of improvement than hospital rankings, because there are
clusters of several hospitals that share the same scores.

"The key is the total score, not the rank," spokeswoman Gretchen Michael said.

Scores are taken out to four decimal points, so "the small differences [in
rankings] don't mean there's a real difference in hospital quality," Michael
said.

Dr. Charles Riccobono, spokesman for Hackensack University Medical Center, also
warned that the report card rankings are relative in many cases.

"Everyone is very reticent to attach a lot of importance to the rankings," said
Riccobono, a gastroenterologist and chief quality officer at Hackensack. Not all
hospitals treat patients with all eight care procedures, but were still ranked
with their competitors, he noted.

Also, patient volumes varied widely between hospitals. For example, Hackensack
handled 1,003 heart attack cases in 2004, while Chilton treated 150.

Hackensack slipped in ranking to 22nd in 2004 for heart attack care from 19th
place in 2003, but moved up to 97 percent overall score in 2004, from 96 percent
overall in 2003.

St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Paterson dropped to 80th place in
pneumonia care in 2004 from 75th place in 2003, but its overall score improved 9
percentage points in 2004 -- to 72 percent from 63 percent in 2003.

In heart attack care, however, St. Joseph's moved up to 40th place from 53rd
with a 94 percent score in 2004, compared with 87 percent in 2003.

Dr. Robert Faillace, a spokesman for St. Joseph's, criticized the ranking and
scoring system, but saw some value in it.

"It's definitely a helpful tool to see where our challenges are, and where to
improve," said Faillace, a cardiologist and chairman of cardiovascular services
at the hospital.


-----

To see more of The Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.NorthJersey.com. Copyright (c) 2005, The Record, Hackensack, N.J.

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: HK-HOSPITAL-RATINGS-20050913

JOURNAL-CODE: HK

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                     Copyright 2005 The Record (New Jersey)

