                              304 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Williamson Daily News, W.Va.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

Pikeville Medical Center earns new accolade

BYLINE: Terry L. May, Williamson Daily News, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words


July 27--PIKEVILLE, Ky. -- The Pikeville Medical Center has been racking up
award after award within the past few years and hospital officials announced
yesterday the facility has won yet another national honor.

According to Walter E. May, PMC president and chief executive officer, the
facility has been named in US News and World Report's 2010-11 Best Hospitals
list.

According to the magazine, 152 hospitals in the country made the list. Slightly
under 5,000 hospitals -- which the magazine claims is "virtually every hospital
in the country" -- were evaluated using specific criteria that included areas
ranking in medical specialties, death rates, quality of care, technology,
nursing care and patient safety. This is the 21st year US News and World Report
has published the list.

"We are proud to be included in this prestigious award," May said. "We did not
apply for this award."

He said the magazine reviews hospitals using data provided to other sources to
create an ranking independent of hospital input.

"Accolades are important," May continued. "But, we cannot rest on our laurels --
we've only just begun."

The hospital has been named as the 2009-2010 National Hopspital of the Year by
the American Alliance of Healthcare Providers, one of the best places to work by
Modern Healthcare and has repeatedly won recognition as one of Kentucky's best
workplaces. Level 3 (highest ranking)Accredited Chest Pain Center,

"Our future is dependent on the leadership of this hospital -- it is the largest
employer in the county," said Wayne T. Rutherford, Pike County judge-executive,
"Pikeville Medical Center deserves all the awards it has received and (the
staff) are to be commended on your courage of heart for the work you do every
day."

To see more of the Williamson Daily News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.williamsondailynews.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Williamson Daily
News, W.Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100727-UX-Pikeville-Medical-Center-earns-new-accolade-20100727

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UX


                                 Copyright 2010

