                              326 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL LISTED NO. 1 IN STATE

BYLINE: State Journal staff, wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 515 words


UW Hospital is the top hospital in Wisconsin and among the nation's top 50
hospitals in seven medical specialties, according to U.S. News and World
Report's latest ranking, released today.

It's the first time the magazine has ranked hospitals by state. It has ranked
them nationally by specialties for many years.

UW's ranking in the specialties, according to UW spokeswoman Lisa Brunette:
nephrology, 24th; geriatrics, 29th; pulmonology, 33rd; ear, nose and throat,
38th; neurology/neurosurgery, 40th; cancer, 41st; gynecology, 44th.

St. Mary's spokesman Steve Van Dinter said St. Mary's is ranked 11th among
hospitals in Wisconsin and is being recognized in two specialties: geriatrics
and diabetes/endocrinology.

Meriter spokeswoman Mary Reinke said Meriter didn't have any information about
any U.S. News rankings.

Accuray to buy imaging company

Accuray, the parent company of TomoTherapy, has signed an agreement to buy
Morphormics, a privately owned medical imaging software company, for $5.7
million.

Accuray has been licensing Morphormics' technology since 2008 and said acquiring
the company, which grew out of research at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, will let it extend those capabilities for Accuray's CyberKnife and
for TomoTherapy's system.

Accuray, of Sunnyvale, Calif., bought TomoTherapy, of Madison, in June 2011 for
$277 million in cash and stock. Both companies make radiation equipment used to
treat cancer patients.

WPS might close Wausau office

WPS Health Insurance says it may be forced to close its Wausau office because it
is losing a key contract. WPS offices in Wausau and Madison handle claims for
TriWest Healthcare Alliance, which administered TRICARE, a Department of Defense
division that provides managed care for military personnel in 21 states.

TriWest lost its military contract and the subsequent appeal. The contract will
be awarded to UnitedHealth Military & Veterans, a division of UnitedHealth
Group.

WPS says the Wausau office might close after the TriWest contract expires in
April. WPS won't say how many people might be facing layoffs, but as of last
year it had 500 workers in Wausau.

BRIEFLY

COMMODITIES: Gold for August delivery fell 40 cents Monday to settle at
$1,591.60 an ounce. September silver fell 4.8 cents to $27.321 an ounce.
September copper fell 1.9 cents to $3.485 a pound. December corn rose 32.25
cents to $7.725 a bushel. September wheat rose 36.75 cents to $8.845 a bushel.
November soybeans rose 38 cents to $15.905 a bushel.

FIRST BUSINESS: FIG Partners, an employee-owned broker/dealer based in Atlanta,
has started independent research coverage on First Business Financial Services,
Madison. FIG Partners rates the bank as "outperform" with a 12-month price
target of $29 a share for First Business stock, which trades on the Nasdaq
market under the symbol FBIZ.

ESCAPE RECALL: Ford is recalling more than 10,000 redesigned 2013 Escape SUVs.
Ford says that wrongly positioned carpet padding could reduce space around the
pedals and cause drivers to hit the side of the brake pedal when switching from
the accelerator.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

