                              343 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                        JULY 10, 2000 Monday SF EDITION
                              Correction Appended

HUP RANKED 10TH-BEST HOSPITAL IN NATION BY MAGAZINE SURVEY SEVERAL PA. HOSPITALS
PLACED IN TOP 50 IN VARIOUS SPECIALTIES.

BYLINE: Stacey Burling, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FEATURES MAGAZINE: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. F04

LENGTH: 577 words


The Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania has been ranked No. 10 in U.S.
News & World Report's "Honor Roll" - the magazine's annual list of the country's
best hospitals.

Those are the 15 hospitals that do many things "exceptionally well," the
magazine reported in the issue due on newsstands today. Johns Hopkins Hospital
in Baltimore topped that group; the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
ranked 15th.

Several other Pennsylvania hospitals were ranked among the top 50 in the nation
for high performance in particular specialties. (HUP was noted for 13 of those.)

No New Jersey hospitals made any of the lists.

The rankings are based in equal measure on a hospital's reputation among
specialist physicians, patient mortality rates, and other information on
hospital services and resources garnered from a survey by the American Hospital
Association. Rankings on eye care, pediatrics, psychiatry and rehabilitation
were based solely on reputation.

HUP was among the magazine's top 50 hospitals in cancer (No. 12), digestive
disorders (10), ear/nose/throat (9), geriatrics (17), gynecology (19), hormonal
disorders (17), kidney disease (16), neurology and neurosurgery (7), orthopedics
(35), respiratory disorders (14), rheumatology (27), urology (16), and
psychiatry (14).

"The recognition of HUP as one of the nation's 'Honor Roll' hospitals is a
tribute to the dedication and commitment of its faculty and staff in providing
quality patient care," Peter G. Traber, CEO of the University of Pennsylvania
Health System and dean of the School of Medicine, said in a news release.

Other area hospitals, the specialties for which they were cited, and their rank
in the national report:

Albert Einstein Medical Center: rehabilitation (12) and urology (45).

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia: pediatrics (2).

Fox Chase Chancer Center: cancer (14).

Friends Hospital, Philadelphia: psychiatry (19).

Lehigh Valley Hospital: urology (44).

Pennsylvania Hospital, which is part of the Penn system: geriatrics (39),
gynecology (39), heart (50) and orthopedics (42).

St. Luke's Hospital, Bethlehem: heart (38).

Temple University Hospital: cancer (49), digestive disorders (22), heart (49),
hormonal disorders (33), neurology and neurosurgery (41), and respiratory
disorders (37).

Thomas Jefferson University Hospital: digestive disorders (36), ear/nose/throat
(32), geriatrics (24), gynecology (33), heart (18), orthopedics (30),
rehabilitation (10) and urology (31).

Wills Eye Hospital: eyes (3) and neurology and neurosurgery (42).

York Hospital: orthopedics (44).

Stacey Burling's e-mail address is sburling@phillynews.com

HOSPITAL RANKINGS Here are U.S. News & World Report's rankings of American
hospitals:

1. Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore.

2. Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

3. Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

4. Cleveland Clinic.

5. UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles.

6. Duke University Medical Center, Durham, N.C.

7. Stanford University Hospital, Stanford, Calif.

8. (tie) Barnes-Jewish Hospital, St. Louis.

8. (tie) Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston.

10. Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

11. University of California, San Francisco Medical Center.

12. University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor.

13. University of Chicago Hospitals.

14. University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle.

15. University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

