                              364 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 13, 2007 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UPMC 13TH-BEST IN POLL SURVEY

BYLINE: Dan Fitzpatrick, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 278 words


The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center ranks as the 13th-best hospital
system in the country, according to a new survey of 5,462 health-care
institutions from U.S. News & World Report.

It is the best performance for the Oakland nonprofit since 2005 and one spot shy
of its 12th-place showing in 1999, the first year UPMC appeared in the upper
echelon of "America's Best Hospitals." The only time it was not ranked was 2004.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore is No. 1 this year, followed by the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and the UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles. The
Cleveland Clinic is No. 4 and the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in
Philadelphia is No. 12.

The annual U.S. News & World Report rankings, initiated in 1990 to help patients
identify the institutions best at tackling the toughest conditions and
procedures, is serious business for hospitals, which often incorporate the
accolades in their marketing campaigns. UPMC, for example, has touted its past
recognition on Port Authority buses.

Last fall, after a 14th-place ranking, UPMC urged local physicians to vote for
UPMC hospitals should they be among the lucky doctors asked to participate in
the annual survey.

Sandra Danoff, UPMC chief communications officer, said yesterday the 2007
ranking reinforces "the fact that we are not just a regional [hospital] but a
national and international player." The recognition, she added, helps UPMC
compete for the leading researchers, clinicians and scientists, as well as
medical residents. "This is clearly one of the metrics they use when they make
their decision," said Ms. Danoff, also a senior associate to UPMC President
Jeffrey Romoff.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Fitzpatrick can be reached at dfitzpatrick@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1752.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.

