                              394 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

Health briefs for July 18

LENGTH: 385 words


U.S. News names Maine Medical Center state's top hospital


PORTLAND, Maine -- U.S. News & World Report again has named Maine Medical Center
the top hospital in Maine while recognizing eight of the institution's
specialties -- cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology -- as high-performing in its
2014-15 survey of U.S. hospitals. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings,
now in its 25th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients.


The rankings are freely available at health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and will
appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2015 guidebook, available in
August.Bucksport to host open house and health fair


BUCKSPORT, Maine -- An open house and health fair will be held in celebration of
National Health Center Week 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Aug. 13, at Bucksport Regional Health
Center, 110 Broadway. Meet community health organizations and take part in
health screenings.Center for Grieving Children needs support group volunteers


PORTLAND, Maine -- The Center for Grieving Children is looking for volunteer
facilitators for its peer support groups at its Portland and Sanford service
sites.


Facilitators work with children and their families one afternoon or evening per
week, depending on the program. All facilitators complete a comprehensive
35-hour training before leading a support group. Facilitators are needed for the
Tender Living Care Program for families affected by serious illness; Bereavement
Peer Support in both Portland and Sanford; and Multicultural Peer Support
Program.


Orientation sessions for potential volunteers will be held noon-1 p.m. Thursday,
Aug. 14, and 5:30-6:30 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 11, at the Portland facility, 555
Forest Ave.; and 6-7 p.m. Thursday, July 22, and 5-6 p.m. Wednesday, Aug. 27, at
the Sanford facility, 893 Main St. To sign up, call Sue Calhoun at 775-5216. For
information, visit cgcmaine.org.First Aid and CPR classes offered


FOREST CITY TOWNSHIP, Maine -- Danforth Fire Department will conduct a
certification class for First Aid and CPR 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday, Aug. 16, at
the Woodie Wheaton Land Trust Center, 2 Grove Road, Forest City Township. The
cost is $20 per person. Contact Patty at the WWLT to register. Registration is
required.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News

