                              403 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

Three Ohio children's hospital's are in the top ten overall

BYLINE: William K. Alcorn, Vindicator, Youngstown, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 436 words


June 10--AKRON -- Akron Children's Hospital, with two facilities in Boardman, is
ranked nationally in seven pediatric specialties, according to U.S. News & World
Report's 2014-15 Best Children's Hospitals report.

Its local facilities are Akron Children's Mahoning Valley, 6505 Market St., and
the pediatric hospital's neonatal intensive-care unit in St. Elizabeth Boardman
Health Care Center, 8401 Market.

Boston Children's Hospital Medical Center and Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia tied for first place on the Honor Roll, which highlights pediatric
centers that provide high-quality care in three or more specialties of the 10
specialities rated.

Of the 89 ranked hospitals, 10 -- including three in Ohio -- earned a place on
the Honor Roll, according to the magazine report.

Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Nationwide Children's Hospital in
Columbus and Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC garnered national overall
rankings of third, seventh and tied for eighth, respectively.

Akron Children's, a teaching hospital, is one of 89 facilities nationally ranked
in at least one of 10 specialties rated in the 2014-15 Best Children's Hospitals
survey.

Included in Akron Children's national rankings are neonatology, No. 33, and
orthopedics, No. 45.

A 372-bed children's general facility with 9,453 admissions in the most recent
year reported, Akron Children's performed 3,316 annual inpatient and 12,025
outpatient surgeries. Its emergency room had 101,626 visits.

The information used to determine the rankings is provided by the American
Hospital Association, which compiles data on all U.S. hospitals through an
annual survey and from other sources.

U.S. News says in a release that while relatively few children face
life-threatening or rare conditions or have to go through complicated
operations, some do, and they need expertise that a typical hospital, where
nearly all inpatients are adults, cannot provide.

Even a hospital with a busy maternity unit may not be equipped to deal with a
newborn who weighs a few pounds or has a defective heart. Nor do most hospitals
see large numbers of children with wide-ranging cancers or respiratory illnesses
or kidney conditions. And even among hospitals that do, the reality, as it is
for hospitals that treat adult patients, is that some places are better than
others.

That is why U.S. News, in 2007, began using data to rank medical centers on
their ability to help the children who most need it, according to the release.

___ (c)2014 Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) Visit Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) at
www.vindy.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140610-YU-Three-Ohio-children-s-hospital
-s-are-in-the-top-ten-overall-0610-20140610

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YU


                           Copyright 2014 Vindicator

