                              419 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: A staff and wire report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 502 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

TGH, Moffitt In Top 50

Tampa General Hospital is among the nation's top 50 hospitals in seven medical
specialties, according to rankings released by U.S. News & World Report.

The local hospital earned the distinction in the fields of ear, nose and throat
(ranking 37); endocrinology (39); gynecology (27); heart and heart surgery (42);
kidney disorders (34); orthopedics (25); and urology (27).

It was the first time Tampa General earned top 50 recognition in endocrinology
and heart and heart surgery. It is a repeat honor in the other categories.

Two other Tampa Bay area hospitals earned top 50 honors in the magazine's annual
ranking: H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, which ranked 16th in
the cancer specialty; and Sarasota Memorial Health Care System, which ranked
43rd in geriatrics.

Young Pros Dislike Tampa

Tampa, Miami and Las Vegas ranked among the worst cities for young
professionals. At least that's the consensus of an annual survey by Forbes.com.

The mortgage crisis and weak economy have made those cities, which depend
heavily on tourism and consumer spending, unattractive for college graduates
looking for career advancement.

The best cities for young professionals, says the survey: San Francisco,
Minneapolis, Houston and Boston.

Hotel Room Demand Drops

Hillsborough County's hotel room demand fell 6 percent, to 364,920 rooms, in May
compared with May 2007, Smith Travel Research of Hendersonville, Tenn.,
reported. Revenue declined 2.3 percent, to $36.7 million, in May, despite a 3.9
percent increase in the average daily room rate to $100.51, compared with a year
ago.

NATION

Oil Speculators Decried

Airlines pressed their case against oil speculators Friday, urging Congress to
crack down on investors in the commodities markets after gathering earlier in
the week in Washington.

The Stop Oil Speculation Now coalition, a lobbying group of a dozen major
airlines run by the Air Transport Association, pushed for new regulations
governing oil futures trade.

GE's Profit Falls 6 Percent

General Electric Co. said Friday that profit fell 6 percent in the second
quarter, and it has agreed to sell its Japanese consumer finance business for
$5.4 billion.

Fairfield, Conn.-based GE earned $5.07 billion, or 51 cents per share, compared
with a year-earlier profit of $5.38 billion, or 52 cents per share. Revenue rose
to $46.89 billion from $42.38 billion a year earlier.

Shares closed Friday at $27.66, up 2 cents.

ENERGY

Oil Soars to All-Time High

Light, sweet crude for August delivery soared to an all-time high of $147.27 a
barrel before settling at $145.08, up $3.43. That's slightly below last
Thursday's settlement record of $145.29 a barrel. The average U.S. retail price
for gasoline was at $4.096 a gallon, down slightly from the record $4.108 a
gallon reached Monday, according to the AAA auto club and the Oil Price
Information Service.

A staff and wire report

Copyright Â© 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company

