                              427 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Mount Sinai Ranked as One of the Most Social-Media Friendly Hospitals in the
United States in 2013 by Healthcare Administration Advocate Website

LENGTH: 326  words


New Delhi, Sept. 11 -- The Mount Sinai Medical Center is ranked #4 out of the 50
Most Social Media Friendly Hospitals in the United States. It was also the only
hospital in the New York City metropolitan area to rank in the top 15.



The rankings, from MHADegree.org, an online resource for students interested in
earning their master's degree in health administration, are available online at
http://mhadegree.org/top-50-most-social-media-friendly-hospitals-2013/.

"We are very excited about this high ranking," said Leonard Achan, RN, MA, ANP,
Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer, The Mount Sinai Medical
Center. "Mount Sinai's social media strategy adopted two years ago with a staff
of one is quickly leading the market and is also is gaining favorable attention
on the national stage."

In creating the rankings, staff at MHADegree.org gathered social media stats for
all of the hospitals listed as "Nationally Ranked" for at least one adult
specialty by U.S. News & World Report and used the number of followers and the
amount of activity on each platform to calculate a score. The highest possible
score was 100, with 21 points for Facebook, 17 for Twitter, 18 for YouTube, 18
for LinkedIn, 8 for Pinterest 12 for Google Plus, and 6 for Flickr.

Mount Sinai's overall score was 88 points with 18.5 points for Facebook, 15.6
points for Twitter, 15.3 points for YouTube, 16.7 points for LinkedIn, the
highest possible score of 12 points for Google Plus, 7.1 points for Pinterest,
and 2.8 points for Flickr.

"Several years ago, we recognized the importance of social media as a tool for
connecting with our patient population and employees," said Kenneth L. Davis,
MD, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai Medical Center. "As
a result, our social media team has implemented campaigns on multiple platforms,
and we have been thrilled with the ability to connect in real time with members
of our local and global communities."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

