                              436 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                            December 12, 2014 Friday

Prasert richest man on SET

LENGTH: 574  words


Prasert Prasarttongosoth has been ranked the wealthiest man on the Stock
Exchange of Thailand (SET) for the second consecutive year, with publicly listed
shares worth 57.91 billion baht, up 58.24% from the previous year.

Dr Prasert (left), with 58 billion baht, is the richest man on the SET, followed
by Thongma Vijitpongpun of Pruksa Real Estate (top right) and Keeree Kanjanapas
of BTS Group. (Bangkok Post file )

The annual ranking, conducted by the Money &amp; Banking magazine and
Chulalongkorn University's Faculty of Economics, used the share valuation on
Sept 30. It took into account only public information of shareholders and did
not include holdings by nominees or family members.

As the largest shareholder of Bangkok Dusit Medical Services Plc (BGH), the
operator of Bangkok, Samitivej, BNH and Phyathai hospitals, Dr Prasert had a
20.19% stake worth 57.87 billion baht. He also owned a 0.79% stake in Nonthavej
Hospital Plc (NTV) worth 42.77 million baht.

His holdings calculated in the ranking did not include that in Bangkok Airways
Plc (BA), which debuted on the SET after the ranking was compiled. Dr Prasert
held 18.24% in BA as of Oct 27. Based on Thursday's closing price, his stake in
the carrier was worth 8.28 billion baht.

Dr Prasert first joined the list in 2004, when he was ranked 26th, with shares
worth 1.56 billion baht.

Trailing him in the 2014 ranking was Thongma Vijitpongpun, chairman of executive
committee and CEO of Pruksa Real Estate Plc (PS), who fell to the fifth in the
previous year.

Mr Thongma's 54.59% stake in PS was worth 41.58 billion baht, up 63.36% from
2013. The gain was largely due to higher valuation of the stock, which surged
75.64% yearonyear to 34.25 baht a share.

Keeree Kanjanapas, chairman of the skytrain operator BTS Group, slid a notch to
the third this year, even though his holdings rose by 14.55% to 39.20 billion
baht.

He owned 32.58% of BTS worth 38.81 billion baht, 0.6% in developer Sansiri Plc
(SIRI) worth 129.92 million baht and 0.54% of media company VGI Global Media Plc
(VGI) worth 258.46 million baht.

Somphote Ahunai, a former managing director of Yuanta Securities (Thailand) Co
Ltd who turned to energy businesses under Energy Absolute Plc (EA), jumped from
the 10th last year to the fourth this year. He had 36.56 billion baht worth of
shares, up a whopping 260.76% from 2013. His holdings were in EA (40.47% worth
36.53 billion baht) and Eternal Energy Plc (0.94% worth 31.72 million baht).

Anant Asavabhokhin, chairman and CEO of Land and Houses Plc, came at fifth from
fourth in the previous year, with 24.789 billion baht, down 3.70% from last
year.

Niti Osatanukroh, a stock investor, came at sixth, with 24.02 billion, up 28.98%
from the previous year.

Wichai Thongtang, an investor, slipped a notch to the seventh this year. His
holdings in several companies including BGH were worth 20.29 billion baht, up
0.80% from 2013. He was followed by Hathai Siriviriyakul, with her 42.82% stake
in the sugar producer Kaset Thai International Sugar Corporation Plc (KTIS)
worth 18.68 billion baht, up 0.82% yearonyear.

With his 25.84% stake in the telecom and internet service provider Jasmine
International, Pete Bodharamik came ninth, with 16.56 billion baht, down 37.46%.
The 10th went to William Heinecke, chairman of the hospitality and food company
Minor International Plc (MINT), down from the eighth last year, with 13.06
billion baht, up 16.61% from the previous year.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved

