                              468 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday

Mayo again scores high marks for pediatric care

BYLINE: Brett Boese, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


June 28--Mayo Clinic Children's Center has again been ranked as one of the top
facilities in the country, according to U.S. News & World Report.

The 2017-18 ranking of best children's hospitals was unveiled Tuesday, with Mayo
being ranked among the top performers in 9 out of 10 pediatric specialties. The
report examined nearly 200 pediatric centers across the country and ranked the
Top 50 in each specialty, with 82 facilities earning at least one ranking in the
Top 50.

"The rankings reflect our integrated team-based care that has served as the
cornerstone of Mayo's approach to patients of all ages for more than 150 years,"
said Dr. Randall Flick, a pediatric anesthesiologist and medical director of the
Mayo Clinic Children's Center. "We are honored to have outstanding staff who
continuously strive for excellence and to improve care for millions of patients
we treat each year from around the globe."

Despite Mayo's broad success, it was not included among the Best Children's
Hospital Honor Roll, which recognized the Top 10 pediatric facilities. A point
value was assigned to the rankings -- 25 for No. 1, for example -- to determine
the honor roll.

Boston Children's Hospital earned the top spot with 244 points, while the
Children's National Medical Center in Washington, D.C. rounded out the rankings
at No. 10 with 138 points. Mayo was in the next tier of top performers with 64
points.

Last year, Mayo was ranked in the Top 50 in 8 of the 10 specialties that were
examined. Mayo was ranked No. 37 in Neonatology for 2017-18; that specialty
focuses on the medical care of newborn infants, especially the ill or premature
newborn infants.

Mayo fared best in pediatric cancer care with a ranking of No. 19. It ranked No.
20 in two other specialties -- diabetes and endocrinology, and neurology and
neurosurgery.

"The Mayo Clinic Children's Center brings Mayo Clinic quality to children and
families through cutting-edge interventions, such as the Fetal Care Center,
proton beam therapy for childhood cancer, and stem cell treatment for children
with heart disease," Dr. Flick said via press release. "Our team approach and
ability to coordinate care across specialties allows us to be able to address
health problems of all kinds and focus on the individual needs of each patient."

Mayo Clinic's pediatric facility is ranked as the top medical facility in the
Upper Midwest and its Rochester campus was ranked as the top medical facility in
the country in the 2016-17 U.S. News & World Report, which was released last
August. It was ranked among the Top 50 in 15 of the 16 adult specialties
examined by last year's report.

The new national rankings by U.S. News & World Report are expected to be
announced in late July or early August.

___ (c)2017 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170628-RC-Mayo-again-scores-high-marks-for-pediatric-care-0628-20170628

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2017 Post-Bulletin

