                              482 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 362 words


TAMPA BAY AREA

Local Hospitals Fare Well

Two Tampa hospitals affiliated with the University of South Florida scored among
the Top 50 in the 2007 ranking of America's Best Hospitals by U.S. News & World
Report, released Tuesday.

Tampa General Hospital made the list in five specialties: orthopedics, No. 24;
gynecology, No. 25; kidney disease and urology, both No. 41; and
ear/nose/throat, No. 46.

H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute ranked 16th in cancer and 42nd
in ear/nose/throat.

The annual list ranked 16 medical specialties among 5,462 hospitals nationwide,
with measures that included mortality rates and reputation on a survey of top
specialists.

Only one Florida hospital notched a top-10 ranking. Bascom Palmer Eye Institute
at the University of Miami was voted No. 1 in its specialty.

Airport Breaks Record

Tampa International Airport set a June record for departing passengers with
819,755 last month, 3.5 percent more than in June 2006.

Aquarium 'Kid Friendly'

Parents Magazine ranked The Florida Aquarium fifth among "The 10 Best Aquariums
for Kids" in its August issue.

STATE

Florida's Rate Highest

The so-called benchmark payment rate for private Medicare Advantage health plans
this year is higher in Florida than in any other state, coming in at $952.93 a
month per person, according to a comparison by Mathematica Policy Research
released Tuesday by the Kaiser Family Foundation. That's 18 percent above the
national average benchmark of $807.48 a month.

NET

SunRocket Fizzles

The abrupt shutdown of Internet phone carrier SunRocket left more than 200,000
customers scrambling for alternative service Tuesday. Nobody at SunRocket was
available to explain why the company ceased operations Monday without warning.

WORLD

Basell, Lyondell Merge

Dutch chemicals company Basell and U.S. competitor Lyondell Chemical said
Tuesday that they will combine in a $12.1 billion cash deal to create one of the
world's largest chemical companies.

A staff and wire report

Watch the Tribune's Business report at 5, 6 and 11 a.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.
Saturdays on WFLA-TV.

Copyright Â© 2007, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

