                              485 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Monitor

               Distributed by Knight/Ridder Tribune News Service

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday

Region's Hospitals Rank High In National Survey

BYLINE: Jennifer C. Smith, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


Feb. 23--McALLEN -- Rio Grande Regional Hospital and Valley Regional Medical
Center in Brownsville are rated in the top 5 percent of hospitals in the nation
due to their low mortality and complication rates, according to a nationally
recognized health care ratings company.

The hospitals received the 2006 Distinguished Hospital Award for Clinical
Excellence based on a three-year study by HealthGrades Inc. The Colorado-based
organization provides ratings and profiles of hospitals, nursing homes and
physicians to consumers, corporations, health plans and hospitals.

HealthGrades examined 39 million Medicare hospitalization records at 5,122
hospitals between 2002 and 2004. The top hospitals had mortality and
complication rates for 26 procedures and diagnoses -- including bypass surgery
and

hip-replacement surgery -- 27 percent lower than other facilities.

"Certainly this (award) is one of the big ones," said HealthGrades spokesman
Scott Shapiro. "It's very difficult to get on this list."

But their rankings should not be viewed as the sole health care rankings source,
said Texas Hospital Association spokeswoman Amanda Engler.

"Most hospitals participate in several -- and sometimes many! -- quality/patient
safety initiatives," she wrote in an e-mail. "Ideally, consumers should look at
several sources and then discuss any questions (and) concerns they may have with
their physician."

The award marks the fourth year Rio Grande Regional has received the award and
the first time for Valley Regional.

Several Rio Grande Valley facilities, including Rio Grande Regional Hospital and
Mission Regional Medical Center, have received other HealthGrades recognitions
this year and in prior years in areas such as stroke and pulmonary care and
maternity care.

For more information on HealthGrades, go to the Web site at
www.healthgrades.com.

--------

Jennifer C. Smith covers health, environment and science issues for The Monitor.
She can be reached at (956) 683-4462.

Copyright (c) 2006, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas Distributed by Knight
Ridder/Tribune Business News. For information on republishing this content,
contact us at (800) 661-2511 (U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213)
237-6515, or e-mail reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060223-MC-0223-Region-s-Hospitals-Rank-High-In-National-Survey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MC


                           Copyright 2006 The Monitor

