                              50 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Journal-World (Lawrence, Kansas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 13, 2007 Friday

KU Hospital ranked nationally: U.S. News and World Report rates cardiac program
No. 30

BYLINE: George Diepenbrock, Journal-World, Lawrence, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words


Jul. 13--Kansas University Hospital is ranked nationally as having the 30th best
heart care and heart surgery program in U.S. News and World Report's "Best
Hospitals" issue, to be released today.

Leaders with the hospital in Kansas City, Kan., on Thursday announced the
ranking and said it was the hospital's first time to make a U.S. News specialty
ranking. They also touted that the hospital revitalized its heart care and heart
surgery program only six years ago.

"We've proven in just a short amount of time we could build a program based on
quality outcomes for patients, develop record-high patient satisfaction, conduct
significant cardiac research and help teach the next generation of physicians,"
Bob Page, KU Hospital's president and CEO, said in a statement.

Page credited the work of physicians, nurses and other staff for helping achieve
a 0.63 risk-adjusted mortality rate in the rankings for Medicare patients from
2003 to 2005. A rate lower than 1.00 means the mortality rate was lower than
expected, and KU Hospital ranked fourth-lowest in that criteria of the top 50
hospitals on the list, said hospital spokesman Dennis McCulloch.

Page and McCulloch said the adjusted mortality rate carried the hospital in the
rankings because of the program's youth, as KU Hospital received no credit in
the rankings' other component -- a national reputation survey.

Hospital leaders also said it achieved the highest-ranked heart program in the
area and the highest U.S. News ranking in specialty areas of any area hospital.

KU Hospital is involved in three-way negotiations with Kansas University Medical
Center and St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas City, Mo., as KUMC and St. Luke's have
discussed establishing an affiliation. KU Hospital has been KUMC's main teaching
hospital and split with the school in 1998.

McCulloch said the parties were still trying to reach an agreement that would be
a "win for everybody."

"We've said for a long time that we have pride in every aspect of our operation,
and we will stack up the quality of this operation to any hospital in the
country," he said.

To see more of the Journal-World, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.ljworld.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, Journal-World, Lawrence, Kan.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070713-LW-0713-KU-Hospital-ranked-nationally

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LW


                          Copyright 2007 Journal-World


