                              58 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday

Decatur hospitals will keep BCBS Tier 1 ranking

BYLINE: Deangelo McDaniel, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 392 words


March 16--Decatur Morgan Hospital will retain its Tier 1 ranking with Blue Cross
and Blue Shield of Alabama, which means patient copays for service will remain
the same as other hospitals in the Decatur area.

In its preliminary standings for 2016, Blue Cross, which is the state's largest
health insurance provider, had downgraded Decatur Morgan and its Parkway campus
on the Beltline from Tier 1 to Tier 2.

"Late last week there was a re-scoring of Decatur Morgan Hospital based on new
information they provided, which allowed them to keep their Tier 1 status," KoKo
Mackin, vice president of communications and community relations for Blue Cross,
said in a written statement.

She did not release details, but said the hospital updated its "cost
information."

Spokeswoman Leigh Hayes said hospital officials were in "serious negotiations"
with Blue Cross after the new rankings came out. She said she didn't know what
additional information was provided "and even if I did I'm not sure I could
share it."

Blue Cross rolled out the three-tier system in 2009 as a way to evaluate
hospitals annually on fiscal awareness, quality, patient safety and patient
experience. Tier 1 is the highest ranking.

The new grading system created new copay amounts for inpatient and outpatient
services, depending on the hospital's tier ranking.

The copay for outpatient surgery at a Tier 1 hospital, for example, is $200,
while the copay is $400 at a Tier 2 or Tier 3 hospital.

When the initial 2016 rankings were released, Decatur Morgan was the only
hospital in Lawrence, Limestone and Morgan counties set to go to Tier 2 status
April 1.

"Hospitals are reviewed routinely, and DMH was able to maintain its Tier I
status by submitting additional information, which was accepted by Blue Cross,"
hospital President Nat Richardson said.

Decatur Morgan became part of Huntsville Hospital System on Sept. 1, 2012. The
facility has 112 acute-care beds, and the campus on the Beltline, which is used
primarily for OBGYN services, is licensed for 120 beds. Hayes said the
facilities have an average combined census of between 130 and 135 patients per
day.

Huntsville Hospital Health System has 18 sites and seven acute-care hospitals.

___ (c)2016 The Decatur Daily (Decatur, Ala.) Visit The Decatur Daily (Decatur,
Ala.) at www.decaturdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160316-DD-Decatur-hospitals-will-keep-BCBS-Tier-1-ranking
-0316-20160316

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2016 The Decatur Daily

