                              60 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 2, 2017 Wednesday

Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn., Heard on the Street column

BYLINE: Jeff Kiger, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


Aug. 02--When ranking by the numbers, it seems it's important to have the
numbers correct.

U.S. News & World Report magazine ranks U.S. hospitals every year. Mayo Clinic
was named No. 1 in 2016-2017 and it proudly has promoted that fact for a year.

The new 2017-2018 hospital rankings were expected to be released today. However,
the magazine recently announced it's delaying that rollout by a week to check
some numbers.

Here's some comments from the magazine's announcement in mid-July about
postponing the list:

"Last week, three weeks ahead of official publication on usnews.com, we provided
hospitals with an advance preview of the 2017-18 Best Hospitals rankings.
Subsequently, we uncovered a problem in the data analysis that affects the 12
data-driven specialty rankings. As a result, rankings in the 12 data-driven
specialties that hospitals received on a preliminary basis on Tuesday, July 11,
2017, were incorrect.

"These data issues were uncovered before the public release of the new rankings.
To ensure the accuracy of the information we release to the public and, out of
an abundance of caution, we are conducting a comprehensive review of the
rankings and ratings analyses. We are also postponing the public release of the
rankings from Aug. 1 to Aug. 8, 2017."

In last year's rankings, Mayo Clinic took the top spot away from Massachusetts
General Hospital by finishing No. 1 in 8 of the 12 specialties, while also
claiming the top spot for such categories as reputation, mortality index,
patient safety, nurse staffing and magnet status, patient services and
technology.

Massachusetts General finished in third place and Cleveland Clinic snagged No.
2. Johns Hopkins Hospital was No. 4.

Overall, Mayo Clinic received 418 points in U.S. News' scoring system. Cleveland
Clinic had 378 points, Massachusetts General 371 points and Johns Hopkins 349
points.

So now we have to wait a week to see if Mayo Clinic has kept its grasp on the
No. 1 ranking.

Hear something? Share it with Heard on the Street. Call Jeff Kiger at
507-285-7600 or drop a note to jkiger@postbulletin.com

___ (c)2017 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170802-RC-Post-Bulletin-Rochester-Minn-Heard-on-the-Street-column-0802-2017080
2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2017 Post-Bulletin

