                              61 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                           February 4, 2016 Thursday

Low-ranking police officers need functional, physical rehabiliation: MP

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm,Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 595  words


"Low-ranking police officers need functional and physical rehabiliation," said
Monufiya MP Samah Gibrael in a statement Thursday, adding that low-ranking
police officers do not act in a propper manner.

Gibrael's statement comes after a number of recent incidents involving low-
ranking police officers involved in violent altercations have been reported in
the news or filmed.Gibrael said she supports the strike of Matariya hospital
staff until the legal action is taken against the low-ranking police officer
responsible for the attack, widely reported in the news, on the hospital staff.A
special committee of MPs, headed by Undersecretary of the House of
Representatives Suleiman Wahdan, held a meeting on Tuesday with the head of the
Doctors' Syndicate, the head of Cairo Doctors' Syndicate and a representative
for the Interior Ministry to discuss the Matariya hospital crisis.A low-ranking
police officer wounded in his face headed to the Matariya Teaching Hospital last
week and asked the doctor examining him to include fake injuries in the medical
report, which he refused, Ahram Online quoted sources in the hospital as
saying.The police officer called some of his colleagues to the hospital and
assaulted the staff before taking two doctors to a police station where they
were reportedly assaulted. They were later released, according to the
source.Undersecretary of the Doctors' Syndicate Mona Mina said Thursday that the
hospital staff would not end their strike until the Doctors' Syndicate's general
assembly on February 12 to decide on escalatory measures regarding the
incident.A low-ranking police officer in Beheira also assauled a nurse at Koam
Hamada Hospital at 4 a.m. on Thursday, after the examination of his son was
delayed.


The low-ranking police officer slapped the nurse, after which she suffered from
a nervous breakdown and entered the intensive care unit, according to the
communication received by Major General Mohamed Emad Eddin Samy, head of Beheira
Security Directorate.Police leaders headed to the hospital in an attempt to
contain the crisis after the nurse's colleagues showed solidarity with
her.According to a security source, the police officer accompanied his sick son
to the hospital at 4 a.m., but there was no doctor to examine him. The nurse
called a doctor who refused to go to the hospital and told the nurse what
medication was needed for the officer's son by phone. The police officer started
filming the hospital, which was empty of doctors, but the nurse attempted to
stop him. A quarrel occured between both, during which the officer slapped the
nurse, the source added.A two-minute video went viral on social media Wednesday,
depicting a low-ranking police officer slap a woman repeatedly on Cairo's metro
system after she refused to allow men entrance into a women-only carriage.The
footage, which was filmed by the privately owned Al-Watan, shows people gathered
around a young veiled woman shouting at several men who were trying to enter the
car. "The metro isn't your own," said one of the men who was trying to enter the
car.The woman took a seat and started to fight with a low-ranking police officer
who, with no clear reason, slapped her, causing the woman to scream repeatedly.
The video shows the police officer grab the woman and push her off the metro car
while she continued to scream.Men are supposed to be prevented from riding on
the two women-only carriages until 9 p.m., when one of them becomes open to both
genders. The cars are intended to give women more privacy and reduce sexual
harassment.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2016 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

