                              71 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Dominion Post (Morgantown, West Virginia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            March 11, 2015 Wednesday

WVU Law School falls 10 places on report amid changes to rankings

BYLINE: Andrew Hesner, The Dominion Post, Morgantown, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words


March 11--U.S. News and World Report's rankings WVU's College of Law during the
past few years, have been a roller-coaster ride -- recently ranking No. 94 in
the country out of 149 schools that placed -- up from No. 84 this past year, No.
91 in 2013 and 101 in 2012.

But the law school rankings, released Tuesday, were determined a bit differently
compared with past years.

John Morse, chief data strategist for the publication, said "law schools with
large percentages of graduates who hold jobs funded by the law school or
university typically will rank lower than they would have if those jobs had been
at law firms or in government."

Joyce McConnell, current WVU provost who was law school dean during the ranking
calculations, said the results are only one ranking different from this past
year's results.

"The School of Law is an excellent school," she said Tuesday. "We can always
anticipate a shift."

Some of the other results from the 2016 rankings show WVU improved as a top
public school -- from 94th in the 2015 report to 93rd, out of 117 institutions.

The Benjamin M. Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources is the
107th best engineering school in the country out of 184 institutions that were
ranked. This is up from 109th.

The College of Education and Human Services improved from 106th to 104th, out of
184 institutions ranked. The school was ranked 112th in 2013.

WVU was ranked the same in National Universities category, at 168th. The rank is
based on the 201 institutions.

The university's online business program fell from 23rd to 25th place. The
number was based on 142 ranked institutions.

The publication uses test scores, peer reviews and research funding to determine
the rankings.

WVU Hospitals

West Virginia University Hospitals (WVUH) ranked No. 1 in the category of state
hospitals. Charleston Area Medical Center placed second. The ranking was based
on three ranked hospitals.

WVUH was ranked high-performing in the following adult specialties: Cancer,
cardiology and heart surgery, and diabetes & endocrinology, among many others.

Seventy-seven percent of patients surveyed said they would recommend the
hospital to family and friends; it received an average overall rating, with 8
percent of patients survey saying it was low-quality.

Seventy-two percent said it was highest or of very high quality.

___ (c)2015 The Dominion Post (Morgantown, W.Va.) Visit The Dominion Post
(Morgantown, W.Va.) at www.dominionpost.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150311-MV-WVU-Law-School-falls-10-places-on-report-amid-changes-to-
rankings-0311-20150311

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MV


                        Copyright 2015 The Dominion Post

