                              94 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Naperville Sun, Ill.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Edward Hospital in Naperville again ranks among top in state

BYLINE: Suzanne Baker, Naperville Sun, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 317 words


Aug. 08--Edward Hospital in Naperville continues to rank among the top hospitals
in Illinois, according to U.S. News & World Report.

In their 28th year, the 2017-18 Best Hospitals rankings released Tuesday
compared more than 4,500 medical centers nationwide in 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. This year 152 hospitals were nationally ranked in at
least one specialty.

For patients seeking care close to home, U.S. News also recognized 535 Best
Regional Hospitals, ranking them in state and metro based on their performance
in both complex and common care.

Edward Hospital this year was awarded a No. 12 ranking in the Chicago
metropolitan area and 13 in Illinois, earning a "high performing" rating in
seven procedures/conditions: urology, geriatrics, gastroenterology, colon
cancer, heart failure, heart bypass and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or
COPD.

The Naperville hospital has remained fairly consistent over the last few years
in its state rankings, awarded 14 in 2016-17 and 13 in 2015-16.

"The ranking is an honor in light of how many excellent hospitals there are in
Illinois," Bill Kottmann, president and CEO of Edward Hospital, said in an
email.

"We view it as a validation of the quality of care Edward provides as well as an
incentive to improve our performance and move higher on the list," he said.

The top ranked hospital in Illinois was Northwestern Memorial Hospital in
Chicago, which also earned a spot on U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals
Honor Roll. The distinction was awarded to only 20 hospitals in the United
States that deliver exceptional treatment across multiple areas of care.

The Mayo Clinic claimed the No. 1 spot on the Best Hospitals Honor Roll.

subaker@tribpub.com

___ (c)2017 the Naperville Sun (Naperville, Ill.) Visit the Naperville Sun
(Naperville, Ill.) at www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs/naperville-sun Distributed
by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170808-NAP-Edward-Hospital
-in-Naperville-again-ranks-among-top-in-state-0808-20170808

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NAP


                                 Copyright 2017

