
                               1 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 25, 2017 Sunday

CHK management to remove of political parties' banners, flags

SECTION: Vol. 10 No. 176

LENGTH: 241  words


The administration of Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) has decided to remove
political parties' slogans, banners, pamphlets and flags from the premises of
hospital. An official at the hospital told that that hospital management had
started removal of political parties' slogans, banners, pamphlets and other such
materials from hospital to provide politics-free atmosphere to visiting
patients. He said political slogans, banners and flags of different political
parties could be seen at entrance gates, emergency ward, departments and walls
of the hospital, which created an ugly atmosphere for visitors. He said prime
responsibility of any public hospital was to provide better facilities of
treatment to patients, who should feel comfortable when they visit it, but
unfortunately, the major hospital of Sindh seemed more like office of political
parties instated of health facility. He said: 'Graffiti on hospital walls
creates an ugly atmosphere for staff and visiting patients, thus the
administration has decided to remove political slogans, banners, pamphlets and
flags of political parties from the premises of the hospital on urgent basis.'
On the other hand, the doctors, especially female staff of the hospitals, say
that political involvement in hospitals creates a strange environment,
disturbing the professional environment for them. Medical Superintendent, Civil
Hospital Karachi, Dr Tahir Aziz Shaikh, was not available for comments.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                              June 25, 2017 Sunday

CHK management to remove of political parties' banners, flags

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 176

LENGTH: 241  words


The administration of Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) has decided to remove
political parties' slogans, banners, pamphlets and flags from the premises of
hospital.

An official at the hospital told PPI that that hospital management had started
removal of political parties' slogans, banners, pamphlets and other such
materials from hospital to provide politics-free atmosphere to visiting
patients. He said political slogans, banners and flags of different political
parties could be seen at entrance gates, emergency ward, departments and walls
of the hospital, which created an ugly atmosphere for visitors.

He said prime responsibility of any public hospital was to provide better
facilities of treatment to patients, who should feel comfortable when they visit
it,  but unfortunately, the major hospital of Sindh seemed more like office of
political parties instated of health facility.

He said: 'Graffiti on hospital walls creates an ugly atmosphere for staff and
visiting patients, thus the administration has decided to remove political
slogans, banners, pamphlets and flags of political parties from the premises of
the hospital on urgent basis.'

On the other hand, the doctors, especially female staff of the hospitals, say
that political involvement in hospitals creates a strange environment,
disturbing the professional environment for them.

Medical Superintendent, Civil Hospital Karachi, Dr Tahir Aziz Shaikh, was not
available for comments.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday

Hospital crisis lingers on

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 550  words


KATHMANDU/ CHITWAN: While a team of top notch doctors and hospital management
have been trying to seek government's constructive political intervention,
today's meeting of top leaders of the three political parties failed to take any
decision regarding the resumption of services at BP Koirala Memorial Cancer
Hospital in Chitwan.

Although the top leaders met today to reach a conclusion regarding the row over
the appointment of executive director, they failed to show their concern about
the issue.

Samir Dahal, personal secretary of Pushpa Kamal Dahal, said the three-party
meeting focused on the issues of Constitutional Committee rather than the cancer
hospital crisis. He added the three parties are scheduled to meet on Monday to
resolve the cancer hospital crisis.

Earlier on Saturday, Pushpa Kamal Dahal had assured to solve the hospital row
through the three-party meeting today.

All medical services and departments of the country's largest cancer hospital
have remained shut since April 28, after technicians of radio-diagnosis,
radiotherapy, chemotherapy, pathology and physiotherapy protested against the
politicisation at the hospital.

The hospital has been facing disturbances for the last two months following the
appointment of Dr Laxmi Narayan Singh as the executive director after the
retirement of Dr Bhaktaman Shrestha. Employees union affiliated to Maoists had
locked the administration department at the hospital and refused to accept the
new executive director, stating that he was appointed by the board of directors.

Dr Rameshwor Man Shrestha, newly elected chairperson of the hospital, said the
political leaders had assured to call them for a meeting after the political
parties met district level political leaders. He said they were waiting for the
call from the leaders.

He has demanded an end to the present deadlock and a favourable work
environment.

Dr Anjani Kumar Jha, oncologist at the hospital, has asked the concerned bodies
to adopt legal procedures rather than closing the hospital.

The Civil Society Chitwan has expressed concern as the patients have been
deprived of health facilities. Deputy Chairman of Civil Society Chitwan,
Narayansingh Kunwar, claimed that the situation took nasty turn due to the short
sightedness of political parties, adding, ''I urge the political parties to be
serious as the issue of health is a serious one.''

Shyam Lamichhane, District Deputy Chairman, Cancer Service Society, said the
closure of the hospital has hit the patients hard, adding that the top brass of
the three political parties should solve the problem.

Premraj Rimal, former member of Cancer Hospital Operating Committee, said the
political parties should forge consensus in this regard. ''The hospital cannot
provide the expected services if the parties fail to forge political consensus,"
said Rimal.

A team headed by Dr Rameshworman Shrestha, chairman of hospital development
committee, is in Kathmandu to apprise the stakeholders of the situation in the
hospital. Meanwhile, the executive director Dr Laxmi Narayan Singh and former
executive director Dr Bhaktaman Shrestha have been claiming to be the authorised
executive director of the hospital. There are 36 cancer specialists, 19 medical
officers and 13 Chinese doctors, and over 100 technicians at the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                           September 15, 2006 Friday

Hospital Leaders Help Fund Effort to Aid Democrats

BYLINE: IRA STOLL -, Staff Reporter of the Sun

SECTION: NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words


Since Senator Grassley launched an investigation of not-for-profit hospitals, a
political action committee funded by the hospital's trustees and executives has
given tens of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions to try to regain a
Democratic majority in the Senate, which would have the effect of ousting Mr.
Grassley from his post as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.

The hospital claims that the political action committee is independent of it.
"The PAC is independent of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. I have no information
about it and would not be the one to provide information," a spokeswoman for the
hospital, Kathleen Robinson, said.

But federal election records show that the treasurer of the political action
committee, William Polf, is the hospital's senior vice president for external
relations. And virtually every one of the 170 donations to the political action
committee disclosed in the federal election records come from a
NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital trustee, doctor, or employee.

That is raising some questions for Mr. Grassley.

"Senator Grassley has been and continues to look at the political activities of
nonprofits, exploring what is and is not appropriate. The relationship that you
describe between the hospital and this PAC raises questions for us," a
spokeswoman for the Senate Finance Committee, Jill Gerber, told The New York
Sun.

The political action committee's contributors include donors known as
Republican-leaning activists. NewYork-Presbyterian's chairman, John J. Mack, who
is chairman of the investment bank Morgan Stanley, was a "ranger" who raised
more than $200,000 for President Bush's 2004 re-election campaign. Another
NewYork-Presbyterian trustee, real estate executive Peter Kalikow, has given
hundreds of thousands of dollars to Republican causes in New York.

Mr. Kalikow has given $20,000 and Mr. Mack has given $10,000 to the Teaching
Hospital Education Political Action Committee, the committee funded by
NewYork-Presbyterian trustees and employees. The political action committee, in
turn, has been giving overwhelmingly to Democrats. An analysis by the Center for
Responsive Politics showed that of the committee's contributions to federal
candidates, 82% of the money went to Democrats, and 18% went to Republicans.
That analysis omits $30,000 in contributions from the Teaching Hospital
Education Political Action Committee to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee, which seeks to win a Democratic majority in the Senate. Those
contributions were in 2005 and 2006, and would tilt the percentage balance of
the committee's giving yet further toward the Democrats.

The Teaching Hospital Education Political Action Committee also transfers $3,000
a year - $18,000 since 2000 - to a committee controlled by Rep. Charles Rangel,
a Democrat. That committee, the National Leadership PAC, gives only to
Democratic candidates, including some running for Senate. Its treasurer, Basil
Paterson, is the father of David Paterson, a Democrat who is Eliot Spitzer's
choice for lieutenant governor.

Not all the Teaching Hospital Education Political Action Committee's donations
go to Democrats. Senator Grassley, a Republican, himself received a $2,000
donation from the committee in 2003, before he launched his investigation of the
not-for-profit hospital industry. New York hospital industry officials have
argued in the past that because New York City's congressional delegation is
overwhelmingly Democratic, it is natural that Democrats would receive most of
the industry's political contributions.

And it is possible that the hospital would support Democrats for reasons other
than Mr. Grassley's investigation. The hospital has various interests in
Washington, from Medicare reimbursement rates and subsidies for training
physicians to the budget of the National Institutes of Health, legislation about
electronic medical records, and malpractice reform.

Mr. Grassley had a hearing Wednesday on non-profit hospitals, nationwide,
disclosing that many of them pay their executives millions of dollars a year,
reimburse their executives for country-club memberships, and pay for first-class
travel for their executives and their spouses to luxury resorts - even as the
hospitals sue uninsured patients to recover the costs of medical services
provided.

Mr. Grassley said his investigation had shown there is "often very little
difference between for-profit and non-profit hospitals when it comes to serving
the community." He said, "Some non-profit hospital executives enjoy the best
hotels and great meals, all subsidized by the taxpayer. I find it especially
troubling that executive after executive is having country club dues paid for by
non-profit hospitals."

The Grassley investigation disclosed that one NewYork-Presbyterian executive who
has since left the hospital, Dr. Michael Berman, took a trip to Tuscon, Ariz.,
in February 2002 that cost the hospital more than $8,000 for first-class airfare
for him and his wife and for accommodations at the Loews Ventana Canyon Resort.
That trip was on top of Dr. Berman's $3.4 million in annual compensation. The
hospital defended the expenditures.

While NewYork-Presbyterian's trustees and executives are giving through their
political action committee to help Democrats take control of the Senate, the
president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, Kenneth Raske, is
hedging his bets. Mr. Raske, whose trade association represents the city's
hospitals, gave $1,000 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee on March
24, 2005, the same week that the PAC funded by the NewYork-Presbyterian
executives and trustees gave the DSCC $15,000. On July 31, 2006, Mr. Raske gave
$1,000 to the National Republican Senatorial Committee, the Republican
counterpart of the DSCC, federal records show.The records show no similar
contribution to the NRSC from the committee funded by the NewYork-Presbyterian
trustees and executives.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 24, 1978, Tuesday, Final Edition

Major Hospitals to Form Political Action Group

BYLINE: By Victor Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: First Section; A9

LENGTH: 689 words


The nation's 6,400 major hospitals have decided to add financial clout to their
already effective lobbying operation by forming a political action committee to
funnel campaign contributions to friendly members of Congress.

The American Hospital Association's new move will put the typical community
hospital - nonprofit in aim, often charitably and religiously oriented - into
the same kind of big-dollar politics as business and labor.

The decision to form a political action committee comes in a year when American
hospitals have successfully blocked an administration effort to put a lid on
rising hospital costs.

A key hospital aim is to keep resisting what hospital officials expect to be a
continuing federal battle to limit their prices and multi-billion-dollar
revenues.

Hospital association officials plan similar efforts against what they consider
the "wrong" kind of national health insurance against any stricter regulation of
hospitals under any health insurance plans and against federal efforts to put
together controls on hospital building, expansion and equipment.

The AHA goal is to raise $100,000 a year initially and gradually work up to
"several hundred thousand dollars" yearly, AHA President John Alexander McMahon
said.

The sum might then approach the war chest of the giant of medical political
action groups, the American Medical Association's AMPAC - American Medical
Political Action Committee.  So far this year it has raised $1,036,000, of which
$925,000 already has been given to congressional candidates.

The AHA money, like the AMA's, would go to incumbents or challengers "on a
bipartisan basis" in $1,000 to $10,000 chunks, starting in 1980, McMahon said.
The $10,000 gifts would only become possible "when we can afford that kind of
maximum," he said.  Election law forbids contributions larger than $5,000 in an
election, but the primary and general elections are considered separate.

In alliance with the AMA and the Federation of American Hospitals - the smaller
association of hospitals owned by investors - the AHA in recent months has
mounted an intense campaign against a tight national limit on hospital revenues.

The AHA twice summoned hospital officials from across the country to visit their
congressmen to urge suport of voluntary cost controls by the hospitals.

In a Mailgram this week, the AHA again urged all hospital administrators,
trustees and doctors to contact their senators immediately to "demonstrate all
out opposition" to a last-ditch attempt to force a Senate vote on hospital cost
control.

Actually, that Senate effort - sponsored by Sen. Gaylord Nelson (D-Wis.) and
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) - would merely enact stand-by controls if the
hospitals own efforts fail, and the measure is given only a thin chance.

Nonetheless, McMahon said, "We still have a lot of legislative education to do.
We have had too many 21-20 votes" on cost control in the House Commerce
Committee.

Twelve state hospital associations already have their own state political action
groups to support candidates for state legislatures and other offices.  Twelve
more reportedly are getting ready to start their own "PACs."

"I've been urging for five years that the AHA get into a political hardlobbying
posture," said Ray Hurst, president of the Texas Hospital Association, long a
politically oriented group.  "I think what we're seeing is a delayed realisation
by hospital people who always considered themselves a little above politics.

"Now they see that we've yet to get involved in the political areas because the
politicians are after us.  They want to control us.  Texans still believe in
free enterprise, motherhood and the flag and "leave us alone."

The decision to create the new PAC was announced to AHA members at the group's
mid-year meeting in Ameheim, Calif, this month.  Nonprofit hospitals make up
most of the AHA's membership.  Of the 7,000 U.S. hospitals, the AHA represents
6,400 in effect all but some of the smallest.

Slightly more than 1,000 hospitals, which are neither non profit nor
governmental, are investor-owned and profit-seeking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1978 The Washington Post


                               6 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Order to remove graffiti from hospitals greeted

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 794

LENGTH: 417  words


The doctors' and paramedical organizations on Wednesday welcomed the provincial
health department's notification for removal of wallchalking, banners and
posters of the medical wings of political parties from the premises of all
government hospitals and dispensaries.

According to the notification, all heads, incharges and medical superintendents
of government hospitals have been directed to remove wallchalking, slogans,
banners and posters of political parties from their respective premises.

The directive issued under the section 28(4) of Sindh Healthcare Commission Act
and under the section 3(1) (2) of Prevention of Defacement of Property Act 2013,
stated that no one is authorized or allowed to display/ mount any banner of any
political party, slogans etc in the premises of hospitals, health institutions,
health facilities which may cause defacement or disfigure the image of an ideal
environment and ambience of healthcare facility.

The violators will be   dealt with iron hand under the relevant clauses of the
acts. The heads and incharges of the hospitals have been directed to implement
the executive order in letter and spirit.

President Pakistan Paramedical Staff Association (PPMSA) Sindh Niaz Hussain
Bhutto, when contacted, welcomed the provincial government notification for
removal of wallchalking, posters and banners of medical wings of various
political and ethnic parties from the premises of public hospitals.

He told newsmen that the medical wings of political parties have converted the
healthcares institutions into political arenas by installing huge banners, party
flags and posters of their leaders in the premises hospitals and administration
seems helpless in front of these powerful political activists, who are also the
government servants of health department Sindh.

He said the hospitals have been established to provide treatment facilities to
general public regardless of their race, creed, community, linguistic background
and caste but some political and linguistic parties have established their
medical wings in these hospitals. He said the heads of these public hospitals
are helpless before these medical wings backed by powerful political parties.

He demanded of the health minister, secretary health Sindh and other highups to
close the political parties' medical wings offices established inside the
hospitals. He said only nonpolitical unions and organizations of employees
should be allowed to work in peaceful and legal manner for rights of the
employees.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Order to remove graffiti from hospitals greeted

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 76

LENGTH: 535  words


The doctors' and paramedical organizations on Wednesday welcomed the provincial
health department's notification for removal of wallchalking, banners and
posters of the medical wings of political parties from the premises of all
government hospitals and dispensaries.

According to the notification, all heads, incharges and medical superintendents
of government hospitals have been directed to remove wallchalking, slogans,
banners and posters of political parties from their respective premises.

The directive issued under the section 28(4) of Sindh Healthcare Commission Act
and under the section 3(1) (2) of Prevention of Defacement of Property Act 2013,
stated that no one is authorized or allowed to display/ mount any banner of any
political party, slogans etc in the premises of hospitals, health institutions,
health facilities which may cause defacement or disfigure the image of an ideal
environment and ambience of healthcare facility.

The violators will be   dealt with iron hand under the relevant clauses of the
acts. The heads and incharges of the hospitals have been directed to implement
the executive order in letter and spirit.

President Pakistan Paramedical Staff Association (PPMSA) Sindh Niaz Hussain
Bhutto, when contacted, welcomed the provincial government notification for
removal of wallchalking, posters and banners of medical wings of various
political and ethnic parties from the premises of public hospitals.

He told PPI that the medical wings of political parties have converted the
healthcares institutions into political arenas by installing huge banners, party
flags and posters of their leaders in the premises hospitals and administration
seems helpless in front of these powerful political activists, who are also the
government servants of health department Sindh.

He said the hospitals have been established to provide treatment facilities to
general public regardless of their race, creed, community, linguistic background
and caste but some political and linguistic parties have established their
medical wings in these hospitals. He said the heads of these public hospitals
are helpless before these medical wings backed by powerful political parties.

He demanded of the health minister, secretary health Sindh and other highups to
close the political parties' medical wings offices established inside the
hospitals. He said only nonpolitical unions and organizations of employees
should be allowed to work in peaceful and legal manner for rights of the
employees.

Senior leader of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad said
health and educational institutions should be freed from political interference
as they provide treatment and education to all segments of society without
discrimination. He said PMA has a clear stance on the issue that the health and
education institutions should be spared from all kind of political interference.

He said healthcare institutions should be utilized for healthcare facilities and
medical education rather than making them political platforms.

He said welcomed the provincial government notification on the behalf of PMA for
removal of all the party flags, posters, banners and wall chalking from the
public hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  September 21, 1988, Wednesday, City Edition

Hospital organizes political committee

BYLINE: COLLINS CONNER

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: SPRING HILL



SPRING HILL - HCA/Oak Hill Hospital has joined the political arena    by forming
an organization that will endorse election candidates and    contribute to local
campaigns.

     The organization, called "The Good Government Group," will help    hospital
employees stay abreast of local political issues, said Vince    Vanni, Oak
Hill's community relations director. "A variety of things    have shown there is
a need for employees in our hospital to let local    politicians know we are a
force to be respected," Vanni said Tuesday.

     The group also is part of a state political action committee (PAC)    that
lobbies for Oak Hill's parent company, Hospital Corp. of America.

     "Usually, the political action committee is no more than a    mechanism for
contributing dollars," said Bill Jones, executive    director of Common Cause,
an organization that scrutinizes political    activities and the forces that
affect those activities.

     "Most of the time, the PACs generally are for their own political
advancement. It's more typical of the group to engage in just their own
political economic interest."

     Vanni says the local group was formed to "make our employees and
volunteers become more knowledgeable (and) to be a collective voice"    on local
political issues.

     And the first local issue is November's election.

     According to Vanni, the group's steering committee will endorse    local
political candidates whose platforms "are in the better interest    of
employees."

     All Hernando candidates have been invited to a coffee at the    hospital
Thursday. "We're going to allow our employees to take time    (from their
duties) to pop in and ask a few questions" of the    candidates, Vanni said.

     "The (PAC) steering committee is going to be there. It will be    very
informal, no mob scene or anything like that.

     "Then the steering committee will meet. They'll wait until after    the
runoff (election in October) and then make a decision" on which    candidates to
endorse for November's general election.

     Vanni said Oak Hill was the "only (HCA) hospital that had not    belonged"
to the parent company political action committee. "We've    been hemming and
hawing over this for the last couple of years," Vanni    said of forming the
committee. "It's a standard thing all HCA    hospitals have done."

     Local members pay dues of "about 50 cents a week," Vanni said.

 Half that amount goes to the state HCA political action committee..

     Vanni said the local group will become involved in all political    issues,
not just health-related issues.

     That's unusual, according to Carol Gormley, executive director of    the
North Central Florida Health Planning Commission. Hospital PACs    normally
become involved in health-care issues, she said. It would be    difficult for
such PACs to focus on issues other than health issues,    she said.

     "I've seen (hospital political action groups) operate in a way    that
tends to raise the consciousness of public officials about    health," she said.


     "If the group is calling attention of elected officials to those    issues
with a sort of health focus, that can be effective. If their    only interest is
to represent an employee viewpoint on varying    political issues, I'm not sure
how that would end up."

     School superintendent candidates Dan McIntyre and Nick Morana said
Tuesday they are not uncomfortable meeting with Oak Hill PAC members.

 Both men serve on the Lykes Memorial Hospital board of directors.

     Morana said he was surprised Oak Hill had formed a PAC. "That's    unusual
for a (local) hospital to do that," Morana said. "It's    certainly new to
Hernando County."

     But Morana wasn't surprised that Hospital Corp. of America has a    PAC.
"There are pressures that HCA can bring to bear on politicians,    especially
when certificates of need are being requested. So I suppose    this (the
statewide PAC) becomes advantageous" to a large corporation,    he said.

     "HCA has a very good track record. If they have this kind of
organization, they have it because it has been successful."

     McIntyre also expressed surprise at the formation of a local PAC.    "In my
experience, this is new," he said.

     But McIntyre said he had "no problem with that at all."

     "I like to see people get involved politically. I think the more    people
who inform themselves, the better chance we have for better    decisions."

     Steve Wenzel, chief executive officer of Lykes Health Systems, said    it
is not unusual for national health care providers to have political    action
committees.

     Lykes Memorial Hospital has no such committee and no plans to form    one,
he said.



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


                               9 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                          November 24, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan: Public hospitals crippled by political interference

LENGTH: 1133  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Nov. 24 -- Thousands of citizens head to hospitals daily in the hope
that their disease will be treated, but run into a larger malaise: political
interference in the discharge of medical duty.

Doctors argue that they are helpless before the wrath of activists from
different political parties, who not only carry weapons inside hospitals, but
more importantly, have set up their wards inside hospital premises.

National Institute of Child Health (NICH) Director Dr Jamal Raza shook his head
in exasperation as he described how the Out Patients Department (OPD) was
recently forcibly shut down by activists of a political party.

"Because of their nuisance value, I had transferred some paramedical staff to
other departments. As soon as their party unit was informed of the matter, they
created a huge ruckus in the OPD, verbally abused the patients and the staff,
and the ward was shut. These people can stoop to anything to show us who is in
control," Raza said.

Due to the ruckus and the subsequent closure of the OPD, many including toddlers
and their parents were forced out of the premises. But even Raza, who has worked
at the NICH in an administrative capacity for about 20 years now, was powerless
to stop the anarchy in a ward that receives around 100 patients on a daily
basis.

On his part, Raza told media that the transfers were necessary since work in
various wards was being hampered. "Many of these people are here for their
ulterior motives and have the authority to disrupt things within minutes. It is
like handling a bunch of naughty kids at schools," he said, adding that he still
feels "clueless" when it comes to controlling the mushroom growth of political
parties' offices in the hospital's vicinity.

Visitors to the NICH are usually greeted with a mosaic of pictures depicting the
chief of a political party shaking hands with someone, along with various forms
of graffiti and wall chalking. On a wall high above the children's ward, there
is a slogan of a political party promising food and shelter to the people. This
slogan is dwarfed by another party's slogan about being faithful to the party
'till death'.

While hospitals are not a place to display photos of political leaders, Raza
patiently explained that removing pictures of political leaders becomes a major
issue. "Being a public hospital makes it a freeway for anyone. There are offices
of political parties in our premises and we dare not say anything when they
create a ruckus."

Over at the Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK), Senior Medical Officer Dr Asif told
media that every evening at the emergency ward is an "entertaining" one, with
doctors and nurses having stopped reacting to the constant interference in their
work. "We take it all as part of the day's work," he said.

A few months ago, Asif was the only medical officer who took a stand against a
member of a political party who was furious that his "request" was not
entertained properly. "After verbally abusing me, he started showing me his
party's card. I snatched the card away from him, and asked him to do what he
wants," he quietly said. Though the matter was temporarily settled, he said, the
madness lingered for a few days.

Asif narrated that recently, a number of goons entered the emergency ward with a
patient who had sustained a head wound. Rather than letting the doctors do their
work, the armed men held up a gun against a doctor's head and forced him to
stitch the wound immediately.

"The poor doctor stitched the wound incorrectly, and the armed men hurled abuses
at him. The doctor was shaking from head to toe, fearing for his life. But now
we have become immune to such incidents, and we don't feel normal unless there
is a fight in the emergency ward," Asif added.

Asif alleged that the hospital administration is "complacent" and does not
accord much importance to such serious matters. "There have been a number of
times that I have personally filed a complaint against these parties, but to no
avail at all. These people have offices in our hospital, and to live with them
we have to compromise on a lot of things, even our integrity at times," he said.

The medical superintendent of another major public hospital, who requested
anonymity, said that after two years of professional work, he understood that he
has "no powers" to control political activists. When asked about how he manages
in case there is a brawl or a problem initiated by these people, he said that it
is near impossible to make them understand the issues, so he calls the "bigwigs"
to sort the issue out.

"At Civil Hospital, the newly appointed doctors have to meet with workers of the
Pakistan People's Party (PPP) or the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) - just to be
in their good books," said Dr Samreena Hashmi. "We don't like it at all, but
there is no way around it."

The Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH), one of the biggest public hospitals is also a
den for political workers asserting their authority forcefully. One of the rooms
in the hospital has a huge flag of the MQM, while another room serves as the
party's community welfare (or Zakat) office. People in the hospital walk past
the room pretending not to notice it, and those who do, keep silent.

Meanwhile, the ASH additional medical superintendent is comparatively happy with
his surrounding and refuses to acknowledge the fact that interference of
political workers can be disturbing at all.

A sweeper at the CHK joined a political party, and susequently, his entire
demeanour changed, narrated renowned chest disease specialist Dr Aziz Khan Tank.
Not only did the sweeper stop his routine work, he started asking for a salary
raise and more perks. The administration initially refused to agree, but had to
give in later on.

The private hospitals are exempted from it because they have well defined laws
and have maintained a territory. Hashmi said that it is just a matter of taking
heads of different political parties on board and to maintain an "ethical
boundary."

Raza believes this is the only solution too. "There are many laws but there is
an issue of implementing them at every level. Hospitals, as a rule, should not
have offices of a political party at all, and nor should doctors maintain
political affiliations. If a need is felt, than they can have trade unions
elections every year and let the paramedics elect people on merit, rather than
selecting them on political basis."

With the stories of weapons being transported in ambulances during "political
gang war" circulates, there is an urgent need for the concerned authorities to
take notice of this grave reality and take firm actio Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Scott slams hospitals but takes $100,000;
Scott slams hospitals but accepts $100,000;
Health care commission created on day his PAC gets chain's donation. Health care
commission created on day political panel gets chain's gift.

BYLINE:  By John Kennedy   Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The same day Gov. Rick Scott created a health care commission to probe the
bottom line at Florida hospitals, his political committee collected $100,000 in
contributions from one of the state's biggest hospital chains.

The commission, whose members were appointed Monday, is slated to begin work
this month and is tasked with a broad agenda, including reviewing whether health
outcomes for patients on Medicaid are better or worse than for other patients.

It also is supposed to investigate how much taxpayer-funded hospitals spend on
lobbyists and political donations.

But for this agenda item, Scott, a former hospital industry executive, shouldn't
have to look far to find answers.

Scott's Let's Get to Work spending committee last week reported collecting
$100,000 from HCA Florida West's Good Government Political Action Committee. Its
parent, HCA Healthcare, is the world's largest for-profit hospital chain.

Leading to his re-election last fall, Scott also collected $50,000 in
contributions from Tenet Hospitals, which run five health care facilities in
Palm Beach County.

While Scott is targeting hospital lobbying ranks and contributions, Florida
Republicans have been overwhelmingly the preferred recipients of donations from
the industry.

"There's no intellectual consistency here," said Max Steele, a Florida
Democratic Party spokesman. "The commission and Scott's focus on spending is
clearly designed to put hospitals on the defensive. But Republicans are the ones
getting the contributions, certainly more so than us."

The Florida Hospital Association, the industry's leading lobbying arm, has
steered at least $147,000 to the Florida Republican Party, and $112,600 to the
state's Democratic Party over the past two years.

Tens of thousands of dollars more went to political committees led by state
lawmakers. Again, FHA has favored the Republican side, which controls state
government and the Legislature.

Sen. Joe Negron, R-Stuart, has a political committee called the Treasure Coast
Alliance that has raised more than $2 million over the past two years, including
$35,000 from the Florida Hospital Association.

Negron said he supports the idea of Scott's health care commission, saying more
information will help lawmakers. But he doesn't dispute hospitals donating to
political campaigns.

"The health care sector ... is a major part of our economy," Negron said. "It's
not surprising that they get involved in the political process. They have a
right to participate."

The Committee of Safety Net Hospitals, which represents many of the state's
urban hospitals with a heavy Medicaid caseload, gave $31,000 to the state GOP
for last year's elections, and $3,000 to Scott.

Another $100,000 was scattered across political committees, mostly helping
Republicans.

The Committee of Teaching Hospitals spent only $26,684 in contributions last
year -- but $12,000 went to the Florida Republican Party, $3,000 to Scott, and
the rest mostly to GOP legislators and committees.

Scott, though, is now at war with these same hospital associations.

They support a privatized form of Medicaid expansion proposed by the Florida
Senate and Senate President Andy Gardiner, R-Orlando, who earned $189,329 last
year as vice president of external affairs at Orlando Health, a not-for-profit
hospital, financial disclosure records show.

Scott and the House, led by Speaker Steve Crisafulli, R-Merritt Island, oppose
the measure.

Scott named nine Floridians to the health care commission Monday -- but only
one, Gainesville microsurgeon Dr. Jason Rosenburg -- appears to have any direct
experience in health care.

The panel will be chaired by Carlos Beruff, a builder and a member of the South
Florida Water Management District.

Beruff has contributed $121,000 to Scott, his Let's Get to Work political
committee and the Florida Republican Party, records show.

The commission is scheduled to hold its first meeting May 20 in Tallahassee.

In naming commissioners Monday, Scott bypassed recommendations from the Florida
Hospital Association and Safety Net Hospital Alliance on who to appoint, while
also ignoring two state senators who asked to be on the panel.

The clash between the state's Republican leaders led to the two-month
legislative session ending this month with no resolution on health care -- and
no state budget for the year beginning July 1. Lawmakers will return for a
special session June 1.

Asked last week if the $100,000 contribution by HCA Florida West's Good
Government Political Action Committee is the kind of spending he wants tamped
down, Scott demurred.

"We've got to look at how we spend your tax dollars," Scott told reporters. "I
want to look at how the dollars are spent, are we getting a good return on those
dollars, are patients getting good outcomes. Can we spend those dollars more
efficiently?"

The governor also declined to expand on whether hospitals should be using
dollars for politicking -- even those that flow to him.

"I'm going to focus on how the dollars work," Scott said.

The PAC giving to Scott represents Columbia/HCA Health Care Group, a descendant
corporation of the hospital chain he once led.

Scott's role in that company is well known. He helped lead its rapid expansion
in the 1990s before being ousted by its board in 1997. Three years later
Columbia/HCA paid a record $1.7 billion fine for defrauding the federal
government in Medicare and Medicaid billing.

jkennedy@pbpost.com Twitter: @jkennedyreport

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            June 28, 1989 Wednesday

Hospital payments opposed by premier

BYLINE: GAM

LENGTH: 480 words


The Globe and Mail
   Ontario Premier David Peterson says he is opposed to agencies such as
hospitals or school boards contributing to political parties although his
Liberal Party is on record as accepting such donations.

His comments came after he was confronted in the Legislature yesterday
with New Democratic Party research that showed 14 hospitals contributed
$9,100 to the party.

They included the Wellesley Hospital, which contributed $2,000 in 1985,
and the Hospital for Sick Children, which contributed $1,500 in 1988.

New Democrat David Reville raised the question of the hospitals'
contributions and suggested the money should be returned from the Liberal
Party to the hospitals.

Mr. Peterson said the law now permits these donations "but we want to
review that law and perhaps change that."

Outside the Legislature, he told reporters: "My own opinion is that
transfer agencies (such as schools and hospitals) should not be involved
in political donations."

Health Minister Elinor Caplan said outside the Legislature that she
thinks it is inappropriate for hospitals to make political contributions.
She said the Liberal Party had reviewed the question late in 1987 and
decided to return contributions from hospitals where they are identified.

Her own riding of Oriole has returned some of these contributions, she
said.

However, as they are not illegal, and sometimes are made in the names
of individuals buying tickets to fund-raising events, the contributions
are not always easy to identify, she said.

A spokesman for the Wellesley Hospital confirmed it had donated $2,000
to the Liberals in 1985 in the form of buying tickets to a fund-raising
dinner.

She said the hospital had been invited by the party to buy the tickets
and decided to do so. It had bought similar tickets to a fund-raiser for
the provincial Conservative Party earlier, she said, adding that it has
stopped contributing since then.

A spokesman at the Hospital for Sick Children said its contribution of
$1,500 in 1988 was in the form of buying a table at the party's major
fund-raising dinner, the Heritage Dinner. It was invited to buy an other
table this year but decided not to, the spokesman said.

She added that the money for the contribution did not come from
payments from the provincial government or from public donations to the
hospital. Instead, it came from a fund the hospital raises from its
parking fees and canteen sales.

The other hospitals that made contributions, all in 1987, an election
year, included:
   Providence Villa Hospital and St. Joseph's Hospital in London, both for
$200;
   York-Finch General Hospital for $300;
   Chedoke-McMaster Hospital, Durham Memorial Hospital, Humber Memorial
Hospital, St. Peter's Hospital in Hamilton, St. Joseph's Health Centre in
London, University Hospital in London and York Central Hospital, all for
$400;
   Ottawa Civic Hospital for $500 and Victoria Hospital Corp. for $1,600.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday

Cancer at Cancer Hospital

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, April 30 -- If the late B P Koirala, who championed democracy and the
multiparty system till his dying breath, were alive today, he would perhaps be
ashamed to the core at seeing what the political parties have done to a cancer
hospital in Bharatpur named after him. The B P Koirala Cancer Hospital has
remained shut for the last two days after conflict among doctors and other
hospital staff aligned to the three major parties-UCPN (Maoist), NC and UML-
reached a climax.

So much so that the hospital has closed even basic services such as radiology,
anesthetics, pathology and physiotherapy, and starting today, it has stopped
administering chemotherapy, a crucial treatment for cancer patients. As the
patients at the hospital were denied treatment they came out of their cabins
Thursday and protested. But even this failed to awaken the conscience of the
hospital's medical and other staff. Shame on them all!

But more than any of them, the leaders of the major political parties, who have
stoked this conflict and are largely responsible for the mess the hospital is in
today, should feel ashamed. The conflict in the hospital is mainly about which
party gets to appoint a man close to itself as executive director. Why is it so
important for the parties to appoint their own man as executive director? Well,
the answer is simple: To control the hospital resources so that they can get a
share of it. The hospital has remained in turmoil ever since Dr Bhakta Man
Shrestha's term as executive director ended last September.

Though the Maoists wanted to reappoint him, the hospital management committee,
which was reshuffled by then health minister and NC leader Umakanta Choudhary,
appointed Laxmi Narayan Singh as the executive director. With the change of
government, the Maoists have once again reshuffled the management committee so
that they can remove Singh and reappoint Shrestha in his place. The divisions
and conflict among the medical and other staff at the hospital has now become a
cancer in itself.

This cancer should be removed without further delay so that we can safeguard the
sanctity of the hospital and the patients can be reassured of a continuous
service. The political parties must stop meddling in the educational and health
sectors, both of which remain marred by political interference. Leaders and
staff at hospitals and schools should be chosen strictly on merit basis and not
for their political allegiance or leaning.

And, finally, we also have a piece of advice to the doctors and other staff at
the hospital: Their only responsibility is to their patients and harboring any
political allegiance and letting it influence the service they render is to
compromise their personal and professional integrity. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Political Tehsildar's transfer demand

BYLINE: NASIB SHAH SHINWARI

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 17

LENGTH: 312  words


Doctors and paramedical staff of Agency headquarter hospital Landikotal demanded
the authorities during a press conference here on Saturday that Political
Tehsildar of Landikotal should be immediately transferred for his misbehavior.

The doctors said Political Tehsildar was not aware of tribal and Pakhtoon
culture. Dr. Ashiq said and criticized the political tehsildar immoral behavior
during his visit to the Landikotal hospital.

Dr.Ashiq said that Political Tehsildar with his Khasadar force personnel entered
the Gynecological section of the hospital without any prior permission which was
the insult of female staff and female patients in the department. Dr. Ashiq
threaten and demanded the authorities that if the political tehsildar was not
transferred in three days they would boycott all activities in the hospital
during their official duties adding that only emergency department would be
open. "We condemn the visit and raids of a low scale administration official on
the hospital" Dr.Ashiq said adding that a low scale official has no right to
raid hospital.

Paramedics Staff leader, Fazal Rehman said and urged that Political
Administration should reform their administration first because the political
administration of Landikotal has been involved in high level corruption.

Fazal Rehman said that if the political administration was serious to provide
facilities to patients, they should take steps to appoint Gynecologist and other
specialist doctors at the hospital whose posts were vacant from a long period.
The medical superintendent of the hospital Dr.Jahan Mir said that our
administration has already informed the Political Agent of Khyber agency about
the repair of hospital ultrasound machine.

Dr. Jahan Mir said that one available ultra sound machine for female patients
were properly working and our staff providing check up facilities to patients.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Landikotal doctors demand transfer of tehsildar

SECTION: Vol. XXX No. 17

LENGTH: 324  words


Agency Headquarter Hospital Landikotal doctors and paramedical staff demanded
the forthwith transfer of political Tehsildar of Landikotal within three days
otherwise; they would close the hospital in protest. They alleged him for his
misbehavior in a press conference held in Landikotal press club here on
Saturday. The doctors said that Political Tehsildar Landikotal Daftar Khan was
not aware of tribal and Pakhtoon culture and the rules and regulations as well.
Dr. Ashiq criticized the political tehsildar for his misbehavior during his
visit to the Landikotal hospital. Dr. Ashiq said that Political Tehsildar
without any prior permission entered the Gynecological section of the hospital
which was the insult of the female staff and patients in the labor department.

He threatened and demanded the authorities that if the political tehsildar was
not transferred in three days, they would boycott all activities during their
official duties and would close the hospital except the emergency unit.

"We condemn the visit and raids of a low scale administration official on the
hospital" Dr.Ashiq said, adding that a low scale officer has no right to raid
hospital.

Paramedics Staff leader, Fazal Rehman said that Political Administration should
reform their administration first because the political administration of
Landikotal is involved in high level corruption. Fazal Rehman said that if the
political administration was serious to provide facilities to patients ,they
should take steps to appoint Gynecologist and other specialist doctors at the
hospital whose posts have been vacant for a long period.

The medical superintendent of the hospital Dr.Jahan Mir said that our
administration has already informed the Political Agent of Khyber agency about
the repair of hospital ultrasound machine. Dr. Jahan Mir said that one available
ultra sound machine for female patients were property working and providing
check up facilities to patients

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            December 18, 2015 Friday

Interference in govt hospitals must be stopped: Doctors

SECTION: Vol. XXX No. 346

LENGTH: 338  words


Office bearers of Insaf Doctors Forum (IDF) have asked central and provincial
leadership of all political and religious parties to stop their councilors and
workers from interfering into administrative matters of all tertiary care
hospitals.

Every institution functions within the limits and jurisdiction of law but
however the recently elected members in local government polls and some members
of provincial assembly were constantly interfering into the administrative
matters of hospitals, affecting the patients, said a press release issued by
Insaf Doctors Forum. IDF has received several complains, citing political
interference in patient care and hospital administration from many health care
providers, it informed.

As several representatives who elected in LB polls and non-elected members of
various political parties are coming to hospitals and using references of their
high officials, press release said and adding they seek protocol and special
attention during their visits. IDF office bearers alleged workers of entering
into hospitals along with gunmen for showing power which creates fear among
hospital staffers. The workers were also threatening and abusing doctors
including other staff during their visits, they added.

Most of the recently elected Local Government members (including all political
parties) are unaware of their responsibilities and jurisdiction, they stated.
They also asked Minister for Local Government and Rural Development, Mr
Inayatullah Khan to arrange awareness workshops for the Local Government members
in this regard.

They strongly urged political parties leaders to guide their workers and elected
members to avoid interfering into administrative matters of hospitals and also
not to threaten doctors because these actions are greatly suffering the healthy
environment of hospitals. Political parties leaders and elected members in LB
elections were interfering in Lady Reading Hospital (LRH) and Khyber Teaching
Hospital (KTH) and that they have no concern with affairs of hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday

Govt mulls making Bir's approval must for leaders seeking treatment abroad

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: Kathmandu


Kathmandu, March 10 -- Ailing political leaders would now require approval of
the Bir Hospital for financial aid from government for their treatment abroad,
if the proposal floated by the Ministry of Health and Population (MoHP) gets
endorsed by the cabinet.

Leaders would have to produce approval of the Bir Hospital's medical board to
receive grant, if the cabinet endorses the MoHP proposal, said officials.

The MoHP has taken the move as political leaders started seeking financial aid
from the government for their treatment in foreign hospitals. Some leaders seek
treatment in foreign countries even for minor health complications, which can be
treated within the country. Every year, the government spends millions of rupees
for the treatment of political leaders in foreign hospitals.

"We are preparing to table the proposal in the cabinet," said Minister for
Health and Population Khaga Raj Adhikari, adding, "If the proposal gets
endorsed, leaders of political parties would have to produce recommendation of
the Bir Hospital for financial aid from the government."

At present, the cabinet takes decision on providing financial aid for treatment
of political leaders in foreign hospitals without seeking any recommendation
from the doctors.

He informed that the Bir Hospital has separate cells for the treatment of VIPs
and VVIPs, but no one goes there for treatment. Similar treatment facility is
available in the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH).

"No political leader goes to Bir Hospital, which is the national referral
center, for treatment," complained Adhikari.

According to Adhikari, hospitals in the country provide treatment for most of
the diseases. However, leaders do not trust Nepali doctors. The government has
been spending huge amount of money for the treatment of leaders in foreign
hospitals.

Party leaders, including the chiefs of Nepali Congress and UML, have taken huge
amounts of money for treatment in foreign hospital.

Last year, the government provided Rs 500,000 each to ailing Nepali Congress
leaders Govinda Raj Joshi and Siddha Raj Ojha for medical treatment.

The government had also borne the expenses for air ambulance and medical
treatment of UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli, who underwent kidney-related treatment
in Bangkok. The government had provided Rs 1.28 million to Oli then. Similarly,
former lawmaker of the CPN-UML Shanta Chaudhary had received approximately Rs
500,000 for medical treatment.

Minister Adhikari said this has sent a wrong message to the public. As a result,
even the common people prefer to visit foreign countries for treatment of minor
illness.

"We have to check this trend," said minister Adhikari.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday

Sri Lanka: Hospitals not overtaxed

LENGTH: 407  words

DATELINE: Colombo


Colombo, April 11 -- A few isolated incidents of election violence were reported
in the two days of polling and counting of votes from some parts of the country.

The media contacted some of the main hospitals countrywide to have an overview
of the situation.

The Director of the National Hospital, Dr. Hector Weerasinghe said his hospital
had not received any victims of election violence by last afternoon.

The Kalubowila Teaching Hospital had received four victims who had been
assaulted by their political rivals. The Director of the Hospital Dr. Anil
Jasinghe said the victims had sustained only minor injuries.

The Accident Service of the Kurunegala Teaching Hospital said there had been
several cases. "There were several people who had sustained injuries in clashes,
but we cannot say how many," a spokesman for the Hospital said.

Badulla Provincial Hospital said they had not received any victims of election
violence.

The Anuradhapura Teaching Hospital said that two persons had been brought in
with injuries. Both had been assaulted.

The Galle Karapitiya Teaching Hospital said they had not received any victims of
political violence.

by Dilanthi Jayamanne

A few isolated incidents of election violence were reported in the two days of
polling and counting of votes from some parts of the country.

The media contacted some of the main hospitals countrywide to have an overview
of the situation.

The Director of the National Hospital, Dr. Hector Weerasinghe said his hospital
had not received any victims of election violence by last afternoon.

The Kalubowila Teaching Hospital had received four victims who had been
assaulted by their political rivals. The Director of the Hospital Dr. Anil
Jasinghe said the victims had sustained only minor injuries.

The Accident Service of the Kurunegala Teaching Hospital said there had been
several cases. "There were several people who had sustained injuries in clashes,
but we cannot say how many," a spokesman for the Hospital said.

Badulla Provincial Hospital said they had not received any victims of election
violence.

The Anuradhapura Teaching Hospital said that two persons had been brought in
with injuries. Both had been assaulted.

The Galle Karapitiya Teaching Hospital said they had not received any victims of
political violence. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 14, 2005, Friday

I WILL HELP HOSPITAL PROTEST UNSEAT MP

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN WALKER POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 500 words

HIGHLIGHT: Jacqui Smith; Richard Taylor


A Government Minister faces a fight for her political survival over plans to
downgrade her local hospital.

The independent MP who won an upset victory in the 2001 election last night said
he was ready to advise campaigners in Redditch, Worcestershire, how to unseat
sitting MP Jacqui Smith.

Ms Smith, the Schools Minister, is a rising star in the Labour Party who has
enjoyed rapid promotion since becoming an MP in 1997.

Independent MP Richard Taylor, who represents nearby Wyre Forest, said: "I would
be happy to advise health campaigners on how to stand and win in Redditch, if
needed."

Dr Taylor won the seat in 2001 on a "health concern" platform, following
protests against the downgrading of Kidderminster Hospital, in the
Worcestershire constituency.

His victory, and the defeat of sitting Labour MP David Lock, also a Minister,
was a major shock for the Government, which responded by ordering health trusts
to stop centralising services.

But now Mrs Smith finds herself in a similar position, and has admitted there
could "be political consequences" if the cuts go ahead. Worcestershire Acute
Hospitals NHS Trust has unveiled plans to downgrade the Alexandra Hospital, in
Redditch. The Trust, which is also responsible for Kidderminster Hospital, has
been ordered to make savings of £20 million a year.

Critics say both hospitals are paying the price for serious financial problems
at the third hospital run by the trust, the Worcestershire Royal Hospital in
Worcester.

This cost £95 million and was built under the controversial Private Finance
Initiative Scheme.

Earlier this month, the Trust unveiled proposals to save money, which could
include centralising all of its obstetrics, gynaecology and paediatric services
in Worcester - and closing the Alexandra accident and emergency department.

Dr Taylor said: "These plans are crazy, and I think the Trust may be forced to
back down. But if not, I would happily help campaigners in Redditch who stand
for election.

"The only way to put pressure on the Government to sort these problems out is at
the ballot box."

Ms Smith is to meet Trust managers today to stress her opposition to reduction
of services at the Alexandra.

She said the Government had put billions of pounds of extra money into the NHS -
and budget difficulties were caused by inefficiencies at the trust.

She said: "I do not accept that the A&E will close but, if it does, local people
will be very angry - so will I.

"I live in Redditch myself, I had my children at the Alex and my family have
used the A&E on several occasions.

"I am sure that there will be political consequences if we can't keep accident
and emergency services in the town, but my future as MP for Redditch is hardly
important when we are looking at such a disaster for our local health services."

Redditch is a Conservative target seat, where Labour has a majority of just
2,716, and anger over hospital cuts could also help the Tories

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              19 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             June 12, 2004 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

When politics harms hospitals

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Leaders; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 513 words


Another day, another crisis for our hospital system. Or so it can seem with
every new report of another public hospital put on code red - that is, closed to
additional emergency cases as the weather gets colder and the rate of admissions
rises.

In the wake of the controversy over the 21 unnecessary deaths at Campbelltown
and Camden hospitals over the past 12 months, it is easy to think our hospital
system is indeed in crisis. Like all government services, the pressure of too
many people chasing limited resources can quickly feed dissatisfaction. The
medical system can soak up increasing amounts of public funds with little to
show. Even so, for the most part, the hospital system operates well in what,
from time to time, can be a trying conditions.

Those conditions can be made worse by the political environment. This is clear
from the Herald investigation this week into what went wrong at Camden and
Campbelltown public hospitals. It showed the real operational problems of those
two hospitals too few experienced staff and insufficient resources was made
worse by political interference of the worst kind.

As documents obtained by the Herald disclose, intervention by the Government to
open facilities at Camden hospital in order to bolster Labor's electoral
fortunes cannot be justified. The cost was too high and Campbelltown, with its
larger population base and greater needs, was already facing budget
difficulties.

With its smaller population, it was inevitable that some services at Camden be
sacrificed for the greater needs at nearby Campbelltown. Yet this simple reality
in managing scarce health system resources was held hostage to the political
reality of a Labor State Government seeking to wrest control of the Liberal seat
at Camden successfully, as it turned out.

This political aside should not, however, lead us to lose sight of the fact that
there were unnecessary deaths at Campbelltown and Camden hospitals well before
the elections were in sight. The management of the hospital, on the ground and
within the Health Department, had been amiss for some time. There have now been
some management changes, but it is not clear that they are sufficient to get on
top of the issues involved, let alone restore public confidence fully.

The unnecessary deaths of 21 patients between mid-1999 and February last year is
clearly unacceptable. Equally unacceptable is the intervention of political
parties playing with the health and welfare of large parts of the city's
population for their political gain.

The final report of the special commission of inquiry is due on July 31. It
should point the way to resolving problems in the hospital system and restoring
public confidence. If so, the Government should promptly implement its
recommendations if not for the sake of the hospital system, then for its own.
The Government's blatant exploitation of part of the hospital system for
short-term political goals has been scandalous. No matter what the Walker
inquiry will recommend as a remedy, many voters will want to punish the
Government in a future election.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday

Traders flay welfare institution's victimization

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 166

LENGTH: 277  words


While appealing to all political parties, including the Pakistan Muslim
League-Nawaz, the apex body of traders' representatives Friday said that they
should not make a welfare institution like Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Hospital target of political victimization.

In a meeting of the All Pakistan Anjuman-e-Tajiran, central chairman Khawaja
Shafiq said that targeting a hospital for political vengeance is highly
deplorable on the part of political parties. He said that politicizing against a
modern hospital, which is rendering great services to cancer patients, is a
condemnable act.

Addressing the meeting, the Central general secretary Naeem Mir said the SKHM is
a non-political welfare institution, where millions of cancer patients are
getting modern treatment and deserving patients are being treated free of cost.
He said the allegations against the hospital perhaps may not as harmful to Imran
Khan as these are to cancer patients particularly the deserving patients, who
are getting free treatment.

He appealed to all political parties' leadership to discard such low and
negative tactics. He said the mishandling of public sector hospitals and
patients has become a routine all over the country, exposing tall claims of all
provincial governments.

He said if a welfare institution is rendering invaluable services to cancer
patients, it should not be stopped from working. He said that a political party
should not target Imran Khan's established welfare institution for political
gain. The Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre is a non-
political welfare institution where the deserving patients are being treated
free of cost.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday

Traders flay welfare institution's victimization

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 166

LENGTH: 277  words


While appealing to all political parties, including the Pakistan Muslim
League-Nawaz, the apex body of traders' representatives Friday said that they
should not make a welfare institution like Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Hospital target of political victimization.

In a meeting of the All Pakistan Anjuman-e-Tajiran, central chairman Khawaja
Shafiq said that targeting a hospital for political vengeance is highly
deplorable on the part of political parties. He said that politicizing against a
modern hospital, which is rendering great services to cancer patients, is a
condemnable act.

Addressing the meeting, the Central general secretary Naeem Mir said the SKHM is
a non-political welfare institution, where millions of cancer patients are
getting modern treatment and deserving patients are being treated free of cost.
He said the allegations against the hospital perhaps may not as harmful to Imran
Khan as these are to cancer patients particularly the deserving patients, who
are getting free treatment.

He appealed to all political parties' leadership to discard such low and
negative tactics. He said the mishandling of public sector hospitals and
patients has become a routine all over the country, exposing tall claims of all
provincial governments.

He said if a welfare institution is rendering invaluable services to cancer
patients, it should not be stopped from working. He said that a political party
should not target Imran Khan's established welfare institution for political
gain. The Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre is a non-
political welfare institution where the deserving patients are being treated
free of cost.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            January 23, 2015 Friday

M&CC Hospital Anantnag is back in unsafe building, Locals stage protest

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: Anantnag


Anantnag, Jan. 23 -- Taking common people for a ride, authorities in shifted
back the Maternity and Child Care Hospital to unsafe building in Sherbagh under
mysterious circumstances during the intervening night.

The hospital had been shifted toa safe building in JanglatMandi recently.
Hundreds of people registered protest and blocked the Anantnag-Kishtwar road
against the move. NC activist Iftikar Misger who also participated in protests
told Early Times that a group of chemists bribed few leaders of a political
party who are exerting pressure on administration. "I have reports that four to
five influential chemists have bribed politicians and health department
officials who creating hurdles in shifting the hospital." Iftikar said. He said
that how chemists provide vehicles to health department for shifting the
hospital equipments during the intervening night. "It is very unfortunate that
administration is working under a political party which has not yet assumed
power and is also backing few chemists who want to buy us but we will resist and
not allow them to make our people suffer for their vested interests." He added.
Official sources at M&CC Anantnag told Early Times that medical superintend has
ordered doctors to covert a ward into theater unethically. "Our theater
sustained damage in a fire incident last week and so we were directed to covert
a ward into theater that is totally against the ethics." Doctor, wishing
anonymity said.

He acknowledged that hospital was shifted back under political pressure.
"Government has ordered a year earlier to shift the hospital as according to
Fire and emergency hospital building is unsafe but due to political interference
precious lives are being put at risk." He added. 100 bedded Maternity and Child
Care Hospital Anantnag has highest bed occupancy in South Kashmir according to
official records and is catering rush from not only south Kashmir but from the
farflung areas including Banihal. "If we go through ethics then there should a
proper space from bed to bed in recovery ward but if you will visit the hospital
you will find that neither is no enough space between the two beds for a doctor
to do checkup round." A lady, whishing not to be named said. South Kashmir Civil
society has already threatened to lunch an agitation if the administration not
shifted the hospital to new building at JanglatMandi. "We not allow political
parties to politicize our health care sector." Rao Farman Ali, spokesman SKCS
said. "It is a demand of public that the hospital should be shifted to a new
place which comparatively better than old so why any political party is
interfering and backing few chemists." He added. He said that all the narrow
roads links to old hospital building are creating lot of problems to patients
and is difficult to be reached so the authorities must reconsider its decision
in the interest of public.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            December 20, 2015 Sunday

Insaf forum: Insaf Doctors Forum demands end to political interference in
hospitals

LENGTH: 272  words


Insaf  Doctors Forum (IDF) has demanded politicians and local government
representatives stop interfering with administrative matters of hospitals and
harassing the staff members.

In a statement issued on Sunday, the IDF members said that every institution
functioned within the jurisdictions determined by the law, however some
provincial assembly and LG members were constantly interfering in administrative
matters of the hospitals and threatening the medical staff.

They lamented,  The forum has received several complains citing political
interference in hospitals and many LG members and workers of political parties
are using references of higher officials demanding protocol and special
attention during their visits.

Khyber Teaching Hospital (KTH) IDF General Secretary Dr Mudir informed, Some
politicians visit hospitals with gunmen to show power and spread fear amongst
the staff.

They have threatened and abused doctors and other supporting staff during these
visits, he added. Mudir stated that most of the complaints were received from
Hayatabad Medical Complex (HMC) and KTH.

He further said, They argue with doctors and threaten them that if they did not
facilitate them then they will be terminated from their jobs.

The KTH official requested the leadership of all mainstream political parties to
control their workers and stop them from interfering into the administration
matters of the hospitals.

He also demanded of the provincial health minister and secretary health to issue
instructions to the hospitals' staff not to obey illegal demands of political
workers and ban arms and guns inside the premises of the hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan: Public hospitals tainted with political banners and graffiti

LENGTH: 405  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, June 17 -- The medical wings of political parties have turned the
city's major healthcare centres into campaign grounds by putting up large
banners, party flags and posters of their leaders in their premises and covering
the walls with graffiti.

The administrations of these hospitals appear to be helpless against these
influential activists. A senior doctor at the National Institute of Child Health
(NICH), requesting anonymity, said the breach of medical ethics is visible in
every public hospital in Karachi.

The medical wings of political parties have totally changed the atmosphere of
the NICH. They have put up banners, posters and party flags in different wards
and at the entrances of the hospital.

Graffiti is also visible on the walls outside the hospital and inside its wards
making the medical facility appear as if it is some party's secretariat. The
doctor said no space in the NICH had been spared from these banners and posters.

"This practice can be seen in all other hospitals of Karachi including the
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, the Civil Hospital Karachi, the Abbasi
Shaheed Hospital, but the situation in NICH is worse in comparison to others,"
he said.

The doctor said the whenever administration of the NICH took a step to remove
the political banners, the activists raise a hue and cry against it.

Around 700 or 800 patient visits the outpatient department of the NICH every day
and 18,000 children are treated each month.

The doctor demanded that the health minister and the NICH executive director
should take action against the staff members who were damaging the reputation of
the institution.

Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad, the central leader of the Pakistan Medical Association,
said health institutions and dispensaries should be free from politic
interference as they provided treatment to all segments of the society without
any discrimination.

"The PMA has clear stance on the issue that health institutions should be spared
from political interference. Hospitals should be used only for the purpose they
are meant to be," he added.

Dr Sajjad appealed to the medical wings of political parties to voluntarily
remove the party flags, posters, banners and graffiti in better the interest of
the public

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             March 18, 2014 Tuesday

@HD New Head 48 light;Our hospitals are no place for political statements

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 690 words


Pongphon Sarnsamak

swasdeepat@gmail.com

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;

In a normal situation, it would be a worthy act for the Public Health Ministry
and state hospitals nationwide to erect banners calling for an end to corruption
and violence, but in the current political turmoil, such banners are likely to
create conflict among medical workers and patients.

Banners with statements about "anti-corruption" and "stop violence" have been
erected at the Public Health Ministry and at state hospitals by the Medical
Workers Community Network.

The ministry's permanent secretary Dr Narong Sahametapat is a key network member
and during the past few weeks has come out to oppose the caretaker government
led by Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.

During recent months, the Medical Workers Community Network has played a
prominent role in the political arena, protesting against the government and
alleged corruption. At the same time, the movement has been heavily criticised
over whether it is appropriate for medical workers to use government offices and
hospitals to display their political feelings.

It seems many medical workers were happy and proud when they saw Public Health
Ministry buildings and hospitals covered by banners expressing their political
stance. Some had taken "selfie" pictures with the banners and posted them on
their social-media sites.

Meanwhile, people in other provinces such as Nakhon Sawan and Ratchaburi have
rallied at the hospitals and asked medical workers to remove the banners, saying
medical centres should be free from politics.

Public Health has insisted that all medical workers must provide treatment and
save people's lives, no matter what political side they were on.

The network's use of government offices to express a political stance is, in
fact, likely to create conflict with medical workers and patients who do not
agree with them.

It may be a basic right for every person to express a political opinion, but
medical workers should not use medical institutes or government offices to tell
other people their personal beliefs.

In normal times, the Public Health Ministry and hospitals produce tens of
thousands of banners to disseminate messages on health promotion and disease
prevention.

However, during the current political turmoil, many ministry and hospital
buildings have been covered by banners made by the non-governmental Medical
Workers Community Network.

Recently some of the banners erected by the network were removed from the
ministry's permanent secretary building.

Once the People's Democratic Reform Committee (PDRC) protesters learned the
banners had been taken down, they invaded the Public Health Ministry to find out
the reason.

PDRC leader Issara Somchai was among the group who demanded to see Kamol
Bandaiphet, secretary of caretaker Public Health Minister Pradit Sinthawanarong,
and deputy permanent secretary Dr Chanvit Tharathep, whom they believed had
instructed police to remove the banners.

Protesters shouted they had been instructed by Issara to seek an explanation
from the duo. Some ministry staff joined in the protest and blew whistles.

As a result, protesters got access to the roof, re-erected the banners and,
after failing to locate Kamol and Chanvit, left the building.

The Public Health Ministry was not the only place to be invaded. The private
Mongkutwattana General Hospital was also attacked by unknown assailants.

It's not known if this incident was connected to the political stance of the
hospital's director, but it reflected that patients could be at risk from
unprecedented incidents during the political turmoil.

Medical workers have the right to express their political stance no matter what
side they're on, but professionally, the expression of their political opinions
should be outside the hospitals or medical institutes. They still have the
responsibility to provide medical treatment to all people, no matter where they
stand politically.

It would be better for the Public Health Ministry, or a group of medical
workers, to erect banners â[#x20ac]" if they must â[#x20ac]" with messages
promoting harmony #124in society, instead of creating more conflict.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                       May 20, 1998, Wednesday, Edition 1

ANGRY CROWD DEMANDS FIRING OF SEPARATIST HOSPITAL OFFICIAL

BYLINE: Mark Bourrie

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 571 words


500 jam Ottawa board meeting
 to protest hiring


 SPECIAL TO THE STAR
 OTTAWA - More than 500 people turned up at a meeting yesterday of
 the Ottawa Hospital board to denounce the hiring of former Parti
 Quebecois candidate David Levine to run the city's new
 mega-hospital.
 Levine, who now serves as the Quebec government's agent-general
 in New York, has refused to disavow the Quebec separatist
 movement. In the national capital, where thousands of jobs depend
 on Canada staying intact, Levine's hiring has been greeted with
 outrage.
 The hall chosen by the hospital board for its public meeting had
 seats for about half of the people who arrived to protest against
 Levine's hiring. During the stormy session, chants and songs from
 the crowd outside the hall echoed through the building.
 Levine did not attend the session. The board of the new hospital,
 which was created by the amalgamation of the bilingual Ottawa
 General Hospital and the anglophone Ottawa Civic Hospital, sat in
 silence as speaker after speaker walked up to microphones to
 demand Levine's firing.
 Most of those in the crowd were seniors who applauded Tara
 Barclay when she said, It is my understanding that Mr. Levine
 got his amalgamation expertise by closing English hospitals in
 Quebec and removing English signage in the French hospitals,
 thereby complying with Quebec's Bill 101, a bill that abuses the
 English-speaking citizens of Quebec.
 Is Ontario to become an extension of Quebec, where English
 rights are trampled upon? Because of this, Mr. Levine should
 resign and the board should so likewise.''
 At times the 300 people in the halls of the hospital and crowding
 around the entrances sang O Canada'' or chanted that the
 hospital board should resign.
 Several shoving matches broke out. Security staff and protesters
 argued over whether a sign showing Levine's face crossed out and
 the words No Separatists'' beneath would be allowed into the
 hall.
 During the first hour of the meeting, hospital staff called in
 extra security guards. Police also patrolled discreetly nearby.
 The meeting drew a large contingent of Quebec's francophone
 media, which has been giving the Levine controversy extensive
 coverage. Quebec commentators are comparing the reaction to
 Levine's hiring to a notorious incident in Brockville in the
 1980s when several protesters demonstrating against the Meech
 Lake constitutional accord wiped their feet on a Quebec flag.
 Not all of the people at the meeting opposed Levine's hiring.
 To loud boos and calls of traitor'' from the crowd, former
 Ottawa mayor Marion Dewar said she supports Levine's appointment.
 The controversy has concentrated on his past political
 activities. His experience in hospital administration where he
 worked in a situation where there were governments of different
 political parties. . .''
 Dewar was cut off by the noise of the crowd.
 Shaking visibly, and with moderator Jean Pigott, a former Tory
 cabinet minister who chaired the meeting, pounding on the table
 to try to make the crowd stop its heckling, Dewar chastised
 Levine's opponents.
 What are we afraid of? Our country is still together. We
 haven't had violence. We are not Serbia. But what I hear tonight
 frightens me, it frightens me very much,'' she said.



LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DAVID LEVINE:
 Hospital administrator sparks controversy in Ottawa.

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              27 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

Public hospitals tainted with political banners and graffiti

LENGTH: 370  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


The medical wings of political parties have turned the city's major healthcare
centres into campaign grounds by putting up large banners, party flags and
posters of their leaders in their premises and covering the walls with graffiti.



The administrations of these hospitals appear to be helpless against these
influential activists. A senior doctor at the National Institute of Child Health
(NICH), requesting anonymity, said the breach of medical ethics is visible in
every public hospital in Karachi.

The medical wings of political parties have totally changed the atmosphere of
the NICH. They have put up banners, posters and party flags in different wards
and at the entrances of the hospital.

Graffiti is also visible on the walls outside the hospital and inside its wards
making the medical facility appear as if it is some party's secretariat. The
doctor said no space in the NICH had been spared from these banners and posters.


"This practice can be seen in all other hospitals of Karachi including the
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, the Civil Hospital Karachi, the Abbasi
Shaheed Hospital, but the situation in NICH is worse in comparison to others,"
he said.

The doctor said the whenever administration of the NICH took a step to remove
the political banners, the activists raise a hue and cry against it.

Around 700 or 800 patient visits the outpatient department of the NICH every day
and 18,000 children are treated each month.

The doctor demanded that the health minister and the NICH executive director
should take action against the staff members who were damaging the reputation of
the institution.

Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad, the central leader of the Pakistan Medical Association,
said health institutions and dispensaries should be free from politic
interference as they provided treatment to all segments of the society without
any discrimination.

"The PMA has clear stance on the issue that health institutions should be spared
from political interference. Hospitals should be used only for the purpose they
are meant to be," he added.

Dr Sajjad appealed to the medical wings of political parties to voluntarily
remove the party flags, posters, banners and graffiti in better the interest of
the public.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                         JULY 30, 2000 Sunday D EDITION

CONVENTION BRINGS SPATE OF POLITICAL ADS GROUPS WITH ISSUES TO PRESS, AS WELL AS
THE PARTIES THEMSELVES, WILL TRY TO GET THEIR MESSAGES ACROSS.

BYLINE: Josh Goldstein, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. AA08

LENGTH: 714 words


The Republican convention TV ad blitz has begun.

Groups ranging from the health insurance industry to the Sierra Club and a
coalition of 6,000 hospitals are launching or continuing their political
advertising campaigns to coincide with the convention in Philadelphia this week.

That's not to mention the political parties' ads promoting George W. Bush and
Vice President Gore.

The ads are designed to target viewers interested enough to tune in to the
convention.

"Advertising on CNN and the other cable news channels makes sense whenever there
is an anticipated news event - and the conventions are major news events," said
Anita Dunn, a Democratic political consultant in Washington.

This week, the American Hospital Association and the Federation of American
Hospitals plan to launch an 18-month, $35 million nationwide TV campaign. These
groups, seeking to reverse what they say are devastating federal cuts in their
Medicare reimbursements, are airing about $2 million worth of ads during the
convention here and the Aug. 14-17 Democratic convention in Los Angeles.

"No hospital is happy about kicking [money] into this campaign, because they are
not doing very well," said Tom Scully, president of the Federation of American
Hospitals, which represents 1,700 for-profit hospitals. "But for better or
worse, if people don't know they are hurting you, they aren't going to stop."

Scully said that the group's goal was to spend at least $10 million this year on
ads.

By starting the campaign during the conventions, Scully hopes to bring the
financial plight of hospitals to the attention of policymakers, journalists, and
the politically aware segment of the public watching on TV.

The American Association of Health Plans, which represents the nation's health
maintenance organizations, is also launching ad drives during the conventions.
The goal: to get across HMOs' concerns about the patients' bill of rights that
has been debated in Congress and about Medicare reimbursement cuts.

"We view the conventions as an opportunity, because people interested in
politics and policy are more likely to be watching during that time," said Mark
Merritt, the HMO group's chief political strategist.

The Sierra Club is airing a local TV ad that criticizes Bush's environmental
record as Texas governor. Daniel J. Weiss, the club's political director, said
it would spend more than $50,000 to air the ad during the convention here, with
two audiences in mind - undecided voters and about 15,000 reporters in
Philadelphia for the convention.

"We are trying to let people know that this isn't just a bunch of tree-hugging
wackos that believe Texas has serious environmental problems because of Governor
Bush," Weiss said.

The antiabortion group Center for Reclaiming America began a $50,000 ad drive on
local TV and cable channels as the Republican National Committee arrived here
for its summer meetings Wednesday. Groups on the other side of the abortion
debate have placed ads in the city's subways.

The Business Roundtable, an organization of about 200 chief executives of the
nation's biggest corporations, and the trade association representing
drug-makers plan convention-related ads on TV or in print.

Citizens for Better Medicare, a group founded and largely funded by drug
companies, is already airing ads critical of President Clinton's proposal to
extend a prescription-drug benefit to Medicare's 39 million beneficiaries. The
group said that these ads, being shown in 12 major markets, including
Philadelphia, would continue through the Republican convention.

The AFL-CIO is not buying ads but is handing out thousands of leaflets in union
halls and union shops, criticizing Bush's record.

Both major parties' state chapters are on the air, too.

State GOP chief Alan Novak of Chester County said of the party's ads touting
Bush's education stance: "The timing has to do with reinforcing his message."

Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School for Communication, said:
"If the issue ads are on topics that are being discussed at the convention, they
can be reinforcing. . . . You are either magnifying a message or countering a
message."

Josh Goldstein's e-mail address is jgoldstein@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Republican Convention

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO
In a Republican Party ad, a worker in a hard hat complains that "politicians are
passing new laws that just make health insurance more expensive."

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 17, 1996 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Church v. State - chapter II

BYLINE: Shane Green

SECTION: NEWS; News Extra; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 601 words


Relocating hospitals can be politically unhealthy, writes Shane Green.

THE Kennett Government has so far survived its decision to drastically reshape
Melbourne's hospital system with minimal political damage. But it is about to
face its biggest test over the future of St Vincent's Hospital.

In the past fortnight, the fundamental battle lines have been drawn. This is a
conflict between new and old Melbourne; between the state on one side, and the
church and a medical elite on the other.

It is also a battle that is politically charged and carries significant risks
for the coalition. In New South Wales, the Premier, Mr Bob Carr, has just
suffered an embarrassing political backdown over his Government's attempts to
shift Sydney's St Vincent's Hospital.

For many in the Victorian Government, such a defeat is inconceivable.

Yet the experience - with parallels to the debate over the future of Melbourne's
St Vincent's - has provided a reminder of just what can happen when a Government
takes on an institution considered sacred.

While there has been no decision, Mr Kennett has made it clear the Government
favors moving St Vincent's to Knox. The Government is relying on an argument
that it believes is logically irrefutable: major hospitals need to be near their
patients.

The argument is compelling. Melbourne is growing to the east, and the location
of Melbourne's major hospitals are an accident of history. Inner-city hospitals
made sense when most people lived nearby. The same logic holds a century later
as Melbourne's population has expanded east.

In terms of votes, a new hospital in Knox would be a huge plus for the
Government. The people who would benefit are in the seats of the eastern
suburbs, which a political party must secure if it is to win power in Victoria.

THESE are the seats that the Opposition Leader, Mr John Brumby, is aiming for as
he attempts to take the Labor Party on a troubled journey to the political
middle ground. They are also firmly the territory of the Liberal Party after the
30 March state election, and a new hospital would further secure them for the
Government.

In contrast, St Vincent's - along with other inner-city hospitals - is in a
Labor heartland seat, serving an immediate area of seats of the same political
hue. The hospital also traditionally serves the battlers of society. In the
crude analysis of who would get what out of shifting St Vincent's to Knox, there
appears to be a net gain for the Government.

Yet other factors make the relocation of St Vincent's a dangerous political
play. First, is the important social role the hospital has played in Melbourne
since it was established a century ago by the Sisters of Charity. Its mission
has been that of serving society's needy, motivated not by the principles of
case mix but by religious-inspired compassion.

This is arguably the biggest political danger for the Government.

If it is to be seen to be attacking an institution with a century-old mission of
helping the disadvantaged, the compelling logic of demographics may falter. Mr
Kennett's relationship with the churches is at best uneasy, and he may face a
determined and influential opponent in the Catholic Church and its Victorian
flock.

Mr Carr faltered in the space of only 10 days, faced with an outcry from the
community and medical and nursing fraternities.

His Government - with a slender majority - is a different beast from the Kennett
Government, with its big majority, new mandate and record of success in radical
change. But the NSW experience provides fresh and relevant reasons why the
Kennett Government will need to tread carefully.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1996 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

Jam Mehtab orders for closing political offices in hospitals

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 973

LENGTH: 177  words


Provincial Minister for Health Jam Mehtab Hussain Dahar on Monday directed
administration of all government hospitals to close down offices of all
political parties in their premises, adding no pressure should be tolerated in
this regard.

Presiding over a meeting here in his office, he said that government hospitals
should look like hospitals, not offices of the political parties and their
premises should be cleaned from political slogans, banners, pamphlets and such
other ugly things.

He said it is prime responsibility of government hospitals to provide better
facilities of treatment to the patients and they should feel comfortable when
they visit these hospitals.

He said that the second phase of polio drive was under way in districts of East,
Central and Korangi and due to certain reasons the drive has been further
extended. He said in remaining districts of Sindh the target of vaccinating 6.16
million children will be achieved.

He said that the last polio case in Sindh was reported in February 2015 and in
Karachi city it was reported in October 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     May 20, 1998, Wednesday, METRO EDITION

Angry crowd demands firing of separatist hospital official 500 jam Ottawa board
meeting to protest hiring

BYLINE: By Mark Bourrie Special to The Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   OTTAWA - More than 500 people turned up at a meeting yesterday of the Ottawa
Hospital board to denounce the hiring of former Parti Quebecois candidate David
Levine to run the city's new mega-hospital.

Levine, who now serves as the Quebec government's agent-general in New York, has
refused to disavow the Quebec separatist movement. In the national capital,
where thousands of jobs depend on Canada staying intact, Levine's hiring has
been greeted with outrage.

The hall chosen by the hospital board for its public meeting had seats for about
half of the people who arrived to protest against Levine's hiring. During the
stormy session, chants and songs from the crowd outside the hall echoed through
the building.

Levine did not attend the session. The board of the new hospital, which was
created by the amalgamation of the bilingual Ottawa General Hospital and the
anglophone Ottawa Civic Hospital, sat in silence as speaker after speaker walked
up to microphones to demand Levine's firing.

Most of those in the crowd were seniors who applauded Tara Barclay when she
said, "It is my understanding that Mr. Levine got his amalgamation expertise by
closing English hospitals in Quebec and removing English signage in the French
hospitals, thereby complying with Quebec's Bill 101, a bill that abuses the
English-speaking citizens of Quebec.

"Is Ontario to become an extension of Quebec, where English rights are trampled
upon? Because of this, Mr. Levine should resign and the board should so
likewise."

At times the 300 people in the halls of the hospital and crowding around the
entrances sang "O Canada" or chanted that the hospital board should resign.

Several shoving matches broke out. Security staff and protesters argued over
whether a sign showing Levine's face crossed out and the words "No Separatists"
beneath would be allowed into the hall.

During the first hour of the meeting, hospital staff called in extra security
guards. Police also patrolled discreetly nearby.

The meeting drew a large contingent of Quebec's francophone media, which has
been giving the Levine controversy extensive coverage. Quebec commentators are
comparing the reaction to Levine's hiring to a notorious incident in Brockville
in the 1980s when several protesters demonstrating against the Meech Lake
constitutional accord wiped their feet on a Quebec flag.

Not all of the people at the meeting opposed Levine's hiring.

To loud boos and calls of "traitor" from the crowd, former Ottawa mayor Marion
Dewar said she supports Levine's appointment.

"The controversy has concentrated on his past political activities. His
experience in hospital administration where he worked in a situation where there
were governments of different political parties. . ."

Dewar was cut off by the noise of the crowd.

Shaking visibly, and with moderator Jean Pigott, a former Tory cabinet minister
who chaired the meeting, pounding on the table to try to make the crowd stop its
heckling, Dewar chastised Levine's opponents.

"What are we afraid of? Our country is still together. We haven't had violence.
We are not Serbia. But what I hear tonight frightens me, it frightens me very
much," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: DAVID LEVINE: Hospital administrator sparks controversy in
Ottawa.

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              32 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

We can't wind back the clock We can't wind back the clock

BYLINE: COURTNEY TRENWITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 561 words


FORMER Illawarra hospital board member and city mayor David Campbell says
Federal Government moves to establish boards for all Australia's public
hospitals are a step back in time.

Now the state Minister for the Illawarra, Mr Campbell was one of 12 members of
the then Illawarra Area Health Service Board who were sacked by the NSW Liberal
government in 1988.

Mr Campbell said returning to an era of hospital boards would undo two decades
worth of work.

"If you go back to (having individual hospital boards), we'll wind back what a
lot of people have spent 20 years doing in our region and that's building the
services and attracting more specialist doctors," Mr Campbell said yesterday.

Wollongong Hospital had its own board until 1983, when it was expanded to
include all Illawarra hospitals and renamed the Illawarra Area Health Service
Board.

In 1988, Premier Nick Greiner sacked the board as part of his health service
makeover.

The boards had been criticised for being too political, particularly favouring
members of the Australian Labor Party.

Former Wollongong lord mayor Frank Arkell criticised the Illawarra Area Health
Service Board in 1988 for having a history of political appointments which he
said were "paybacks" for political alliance to the ALP.

Meanwhile, Illawarra-based urologist Paul Kovac said yesterday he was concerned
new boards would also be politicised.

"One of the really key things is why did we change from hospital boards, and the
reason is they were overpoliticised," Dr Kovac said of the planned move.

"A lot of hospital boards were essentially tailored for the purpose of gaining
some kind of recognition in party political careers. That's what people used
them for."

Dr Kovac said Illawarra hospitals needed stability and not a series of boards
for members to use as political building blocks.

He said the region's hospitals were already struggling to cope with the high
turnover of managers and warned that further changes "would be terrifying".

"The public health system needs stability, it's just absolutely floundering," Dr
Kovac said.

"We don't have anyone, for example, running (Wollongong) Hospital now who has
been there for more than a year.

"I think we've had something like 10 CEOs in 10 years, which is really crazy.

"That's one of the reasons why we have such a disaster in public health."

Wollongong Hospital Division of Medicine chairman Chris Dunn said the present
system pressured managers to cover up the poor state of their hospitals.

"The Department of Health at all levels works on a good news system," Dr Dunn
said.

"They don't give a damn about patients, all they're interested in is making sure
that first of all, their statistics are fine and secondly, that nothing gets
into the newspapers ... because if they don't have good things to report to the
person above them they miss out on their promotion.

"I can't really blame them because that's the way things are, they're not really
able to tell the truth because if they tell the truth they get punished."

"The Department of Health at all levels works on a good news system. They don't
give a damn about patients, all they're interested in is making sure that first
of all, their statistics are fine and secondly, that nothing gets into the
newspapers ... if they don't have good things to report to the person above them
they miss out on their promotion." - Dr Chris Dunn

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Three photos: WOLLONGONG HOSPITAL "If you go back to (having individual
hospital boards), we'll wind back what a lot of people have spent 20 years doing
in our region and that's building the services and attracting more specialist
doctors." - David Campbell "A lot of hospital boards were essentially tailored
for the purpose of gaining some kind of recognition in party political careers.
That's what people used them for." - Dr Paul Kovac

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2007 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

Cancer patients lose in hospital fight

BYLINE: LAXMI MAHARJAN

LENGTH: 630  words


KATHMAMDU: The prolonged closure of the Chitwan-based BP Koirala Memorial Cancer
Hospital has proved fatal for several cancer patients in need of critical care.

At the heart of the two-month closure is the ego clash between Dr Laxmi Narayan
Singh and Dr Bhaktaman Shrestha, and the political parties they represent.

Dr Singh, the 'new executive director (ED)', enjoys the Nepali Congress'
backing, while Dr Shrestha, the 'outgoing' ED, has the UCPN-Maoist by his side.

Health experts with years of experience say the political parties are behind the
standoff.

It is illegal to disrupt essential services like critical medical care, but the
government is acting like a mute spectator, they hold.

The experts say the crisis has surfaced because the government does not have a
transparent system for the appointment of employees and politicians have a
vested interest in misusing the public resources.

Dr Kiran Shrestha, president of the Nepal Medical Association, says both the
directors are using political patronage to their advantage at the expense of the
patients.

Dr Kedar Narsingh KC, immediate past president of the NMA, argues that
power-sharing arrangements and political intervention of the new government are
at the root of the crisis.

"Political parties are promoting a culture of impunity and are working against
the rule of law," Dr KC observes.

"An institution should not be closed to serve the interest of an individual,"

he says, requesting the 'outgoing' ED Dr Shrestha

to create a conducive environment for the functioning of the hospital.

"Political parties should not meddle with the internal matters of the hospital,"
Ram Chandra Simkhada, secretary of the Forum for Consumer Protection, argues,
suggesting the appointment of a new new executive director as a way out.

"Political leaders lack the will to implement the Essential Services Act," he
says.

Meanwhile, the NMA council is meeting on Wednesday to press for an early
resumption of the hospital's services and is likely to ask both the 'warring'
doctors to step aside.

Charan Prasai, human right activist, holds that the hospital closure is the
extreme form of rights violation as it has denied people the right to health,
something which the Interim Constitution 2007 has guaranteed.

According to Prasai, political parties' meddlesome behaviour is the major reason
behind the hospital crisis. The government should provide security to the health
sector, he argues.

What the rivals say

KATHMANDU: Dr Bhaktaman Shrestha says he is not going to accept the new
executive director as he was appointed by the board of director, which is an
'illegitimate move'. "I will not take a legal recourse either as I don't believe
in the country's legal system," he says, adding the Supreme Court had discarded
the writ he had filed against the board decision on February 9.

According to Dr Shrestha, the problem will be solved within days with the
appointment of a Maoist Health Minister. According to Dr Shrestha, the new board
members are trying to have their way with Nepali Congress' support. "I sought
YCL's support after Dr Laxmi Narayan Singh came up with more than 55 of his
supporters." The fact that the hospital bears BP Koirala's name doesn't mean
that the hospital belongs exclusively to the NC and its sympathisers, holds Dr
Shrestha. According to Dr Shrestha, Dr Singh had quit as the head of the
hospital's radiology department on 2010 after he failed to discharge his duties.
He said the government should be blamed for the hardships facing the public due
to the hospital closure. On his part, Dr Singh, the newly-appointed executive
director, said he had to enter the hospital with supporters after YCL barred him
from the health facility. According to him, Dr Shrestha has tarnished his image
by politicising the issue.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday

Rs 2.36 b splurged on community hospitals under party influence'

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Feb. 2 -- At a time when many government hospitals are in a pathetic
condition, the Ministry of Health (MoH) doled out more than Rs 2 billion in
three years to community hospitals and NGOs with political access.

There are 109 government hospitals with a total of 5,271 beds and 154 private
hospitals with7,394 beds across the country. Of the government hospitals, 37
hospitals do not have the sanctioned number of beds and many more are without
the necessary equipment.

The government, which started distributing grants to community hospitals 17
years ago, provided Rs 2.36 billion to community hospitals and NGOs under the
influence of political parties and party leaders over the last three years,
according to MoH sources. The distribution of funds in the previous 14 years has
not been recorded in the files. Every year, approximately Rs 500 million is
distributed to community hospitals and to various organizations and political
cadres.

MoH distributed Rs 568 million to 59 hospitals and various organizations in
fiscal year 2013/14, Rs 1.31 billion to 52 hospitals and NGOs in 2014/15 and Rs
479 million to 22 community hospitals and NGOs in 2015/16, according to
documents obtained by Republica. Different ministries distribute more than Rs 20
billion annually to different organizations, individuals and political cadres,
said the MoH sources.

During the tenure of then health minister Ram Janam Chaudhari, Rs 479 million
was given to 22 community hospitals just one day ahead of the end of fiscal year
2015/16, and the receipients were required to submit their reports to the
government within 90 days. However, no reports were submitted within the 90
days.

According to a working manual, the grants should be provided in installments as
the work progresses. "While distributing the Rs 479 million, the manual was not
followed," said Bhavanath Khatiwada, under-secretary at MoH.

Former minister Chaudhari said that the funds used to be distributed haphazardly
in the past. "We started work to bring in new regulations but the cabinet
approved these only in the last hour. So we went ahead and distributed the funds
as per the regulations even though only one day remained before the fiscal year
ended," he added. "If they had failed to submit their reports within the 90
days, the ministry should have monitored them and taken necessary action."

Reports submitted by a few hospitals after 90 days show that the funds were used
for religious activities, seminars and other activities although the working
manual allows expenditure of the funds only on medical equipment and the
construction of hospital buildings. Six of the hospitals are yet to submit their
reports.

Most of the community hospitals, which were expected to deliver cheaper services
as at government hospitals, have charged fees for different tests and surgeries
just like at the expensive private hospitals.

"There is no difference between private and community hospitals in terms of
service charges," said the MoH officials. "This is not the spirit of community
hospitals, which are meant to serve in rural areas where there are no government
hospitals. But many of the community hospitals are located in urban areas, which
are already served by government hospitals."

The present government has not allocated any grants despite the dozens of grant
applications that have piled up at the ministry. "Providing state funds to
community hospitals without examining them thoroughly is questionable," said
Health Minister Gagan Thapa. "We found that the grants were misused, wrongly
used and under-used at community hospitals," he said.

"So we have prepared a draft amendment to the working manual, provisioning
different markers such as not repeating grants to the same organizations every
year, locating community hospitals in remote areas and away from government
hospitals, not providing grants to Kathmandu Valley and the urban areas and
ensuring cheaper services to people," said Minister Thapa. "The working manual
will be tabled at the cabinet meeting on Thursday. Only after it is approved
will grants be distributed to hospitals this year."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Cyprus Mail

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Cabinet greenlights next step towards hospital autonomy

BYLINE: Evie Andreou

LENGTH: 393 words


The cabinet has approved the regulations for the state health services
organisation that will oversee hospital autonomy, it was announced on Wednesday.

According to the health ministry, the cabinet's move aims at ensuring that the
timeframe set by political party leaders last year on the introduction of the
national health scheme (Gesy), is kept.

Hospital autonomy is the first step toward the implementation of Gesy, as state
hospitals must be administratively and financially autonomous to be able to
compete with private hospitals after the health scheme kicks in. The new
organisation in question will oversee the autonomous hospitals.

"According to the decisions of the meeting of the political leaders, the bills
on (hospital) autonomy and the Gesy will have to be passed by parliament before
June 1, 2017," the ministry said. The two bills were tabled to parliament in
mid-October.

It added if amendments are required as a result of the ongoing consultations
between health professionals and the government, they would be made during
discussions at the House health committee.

"The health minister makes a plea to all political parties to cooperate to
achieve the goal of voting the first bills on the Gesy and autonomy so that the
June 1, 2017 timeframe is kept," the announcement said.

Following the meeting of political leaders with President Nicos Anastasiades
last year, it was announced that by June 2017, a public organisation would be
set up to oversee hospital autonomy, while by June 2019 outpatient care would be
introduced. The ultimate date for the full implementation of Gesy is June 1,
2020.

Health Minister Giorgos Pamboridis said last month that the signing of a deal on
the Health Insurance Organisation (HIO) and IT company NCR Cyprus for the
development of a software programme for Gesy, meant no more excuses for those
blocking laws for the national health scheme. The government, he said, had done
its bit as it had overseen the two bills on hospital autonomy and Gesy tabled to
the House and the award of the contract for the software programme. It was now
up to the political parties to approve the bills he said.

The post Cabinet greenlights next step towards hospital autonomy appeared first
on Cyprus Mail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/9/149141173960.jpg

Hospital autonomy is a major step towards the full implementation of Gesy

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 70


               Copyright 2017 Cyprus Mail - Cyprus Mail Co. Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

'Close down all political offices at govt hospitals'

SECTION: Vol. 25 No. 202

LENGTH: 202  words


Sindh Health Minister Jam Mehtab Dahar on Monday issued instructions to
administrations of public hospitals to shut down offices of all political
parties established inside their premises.

He said hospitals should not resemble offices of political parties and should be
cleansed of all political slogans, banners, literature or graffiti on walls.

The health minister said the prime responsibility of government hospitals to
provide better treatment facilities to patients who should feel comfortable when
they visit hospitals.

Several paramedical associations which are affiliated with one political party
or the other haven't established their offices inside hospital premises but have
hoisted party flags, portraits of leaders and painted slogans on the walls.

Health officials disclosed that instructions to remove political offices from
hospitals came after paramedics at the Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre and
National Institute of Child Health, many representing the health of Pakistan
People's Party, boycotted duties and demanded payment of health allowances.

These employees refused to listen to their leaders and caused great
embarrassment to the Sindh health department and ruling part in the province.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 14, 2005, Friday

I WILL HELP HOSPITAL PROTEST UNSEAT MP

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN WALKER POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 500 words

HIGHLIGHT: Jacqui Smith; Richard Taylor


A Government Minister faces a fight for her political survival over plans to
downgrade her local hospital.

The independent MP who won an upset victory in the 2001 election last night said
he was ready to advise campaigners in Redditch, Worcestershire, how to unseat
sitting MP Jacqui Smith.

Ms Smith, the Schools Minister, is a rising star in the Labour Party who has
enjoyed rapid promotion since becoming an MP in 1997.

Independent MP Richard Taylor, who represents nearby Wyre Forest, said: "I would
be happy to advise health campaigners on how to stand and win in Redditch, if
needed."

Dr Taylor won the seat in 2001 on a "health concern" platform, following
protests against the downgrading of Kidderminster Hospital, in the
Worcestershire constituency.

His victory, and the defeat of sitting Labour MP David Lock, also a Minister,
was a major shock for the Government, which responded by ordering health trusts
to stop centralising services.

But now Mrs Smith finds herself in a similar position, and has admitted there
could "be political consequences" if the cuts go ahead. Worcestershire Acute
Hospitals NHS Trust has unveiled plans to downgrade the Alexandra Hospital, in
Redditch. The Trust, which is also responsible for Kidderminster Hospital, has
been ordered to make savings of £20 million a year.

Critics say both hospitals are paying the price for serious financial problems
at the third hospital run by the trust, the Worcestershire Royal Hospital in
Worcester.

This cost £95 million and was built under the controversial Private Finance
Initiative Scheme.

Earlier this month, the Trust unveiled proposals to save money, which could
include centralising all of its obstetrics, gynaecology and paediatric services
in Worcester - and closing the Alexandra accident and emergency department.

Dr Taylor said: "These plans are crazy, and I think the Trust may be forced to
back down. But if not, I would happily help campaigners in Redditch who stand
for election.

"The only way to put pressure on the Government to sort these problems out is at
the ballot box."

Ms Smith is to meet Trust managers today to stress her opposition to reduction
of services at the Alexandra.

She said the Government had put billions of pounds of extra money into the NHS -
and budget difficulties were caused by inefficiencies at the trust.

She said: "I do not accept that the A&E will close but, if it does, local people
will be very angry - so will I.

"I live in Redditch myself, I had my children at the Alex and my family have
used the A&E on several occasions.

"I am sure that there will be political consequences if we can't keep accident
and emergency services in the town, but my future as MP for Redditch is hardly
important when we are looking at such a disaster for our local health services."

Redditch is a Conservative target seat, where Labour has a majority of just
2,716, and anger over hospital cuts could also help the Tories

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              38 of 998 DOCUMENTS



               South Burnett Times and Rural Weekly (Queensland)

                               September 14, 2010

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 708  words


Queensland Health has no plans to close Murgon Hospital.

As recently as August 2009, the hospital's Palliative Care Unit was extended and
modernised to give greater privacy and comfort to patients, their family and
friends and also to the staff who work in the facility.

We are committed to providing access to safe, sustainable and appropriate health
care services for the people of Murgon and the greater South Burnett.

As is the current practice, all patients are triaged to determine the level of
care required and the most appropriate hospital to provide this. This could be a
transfer to Kingaroy hospital or a tertiary hospital.

The Murgon Hospital will continue to provide emergency and inpatient care to a
level appropriate for quality and safe care.

Kingaroy is the main centre of the South Burnett region and the town's hospital
was set up to provide care to this community with the support of outlying
smaller facilities such as Murgon and Nanango. There are seven doctors at
Kingaroy Hospital which is also serviced by an additional three visiting medical
officers and an anaesthetist who is on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

Kingaroy Hospital is also staffed with experienced rural nurses 24 hours a day.
This includes five specifically trained Rural and Isolated Practice Registered
Nurses.

Kingaroy Hospital has a long established and continuing practice with Murgon
Hospital to accept patient transfers and admissions when a Murgon doctor is not
on duty.

The medical coverage for Murgon Hospital has always been, and continues to be,
part of a rotational medical roster that provides 24 hour emergency response.

DR PETER BRISTOW,

Darling Downs - West Moreton

Health Service District

Acting Chief Executive Officer.

Democracy denied?

In five decades our political scene in Canberra has reflected and transferred
the bullying tactics of the school play grounds to parliament - just watch
Question Time on ABC television.

Political parties in Question Time is all about feral, bullying standover
tactics, with nothing to do with running the country, or keeping the voters
informed about the country's affairs.

Our three amigos show quite clearly, the leadership on how to keep our country
from slipping into a dictatorship, as we now know that the major political
parties, have lost the vision to keep the voters informed on the state of the
affairs of the country, the blame game is what is carried out in parliament, it
is our three amigos that has pulled up parliament, through democracy to indicate
the right path of and the guts to do the right thing. Political parties have
long ago given up any pretence of doing good for their electorates, but are
using their elected candidates to expand their Political Party power in
Canberra.

This last election has also shown that the media (all forms) has shown that it
was not prepared to just report the new in a democratic manner, but ignored this
basis principle of freedom of the media, to become the King maker in this past
election, by not publishing what some candidates stood for or making known what
the candidates political policies are. This action reduces the electorate to
complete ignorance, if such information is suppressed, a case of the "mushroom
people, keep them in the dark and feed them B/S" applies, what about giving a
fair go?

Please explain under what principle, was democracy denied?

CY D'OLIVEIRA

Killing whales not on

I watched Sunday Night on August 28 about dwarf minke whales.

The Japanese killing for research is obscene, barbaric and a great big lie. It
must stop.

Australian border security deals very severely with Taiwanese fishermen and
others, so why are the Japanese exempt?

Where is border security when the Japanese are killing the whales? They trespass
in our waters and kill our protected animals and both governments allow them to.

Whichever party is in power I say to you, stop being hypocrites and stop the
Japanese. These beautiful, gentle, intelligent and trusting creatures need and
deserve to be left in peace. We betray them, for what, money and trade! Is it
really worth it?

MAUREEN PAUL,

Blackbutt.

WHAT DO YOU THINK?

Send an SMS to 0428 154 233, post a letter to

PO Box 312 Kingaroy, 4610 or email editorial@southburnetttimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KSB


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Kashmir Observer

                            January 25, 2015 Sunday

Anantnag Maternity Hospital Shifted Back To Unsafe Bldg

LENGTH: 436  words


ANANTNAG: Years after the main building at Sherbagh was declared unsafe by the
Department of Fire and Emergency Services, the authorities shifted back the
Maternity and Child Care Hospital there under mysterious circumstances late last
night.

The hospital had been shifted to a safe building in Janglat Mandi recently.
Hundreds of people registered protest and blocked the Anantnag-Kishtwar road
against the move. NC activist Iftikar Misger who also participated in protests
told to media that a group of chemists bribed few leaders of a political party
who are exerting pressure on administration. "I have reports that four to five
influential chemists have bribed politicians and health department officials who
are creating hurdles in shifting the hospital." Iftikar said. He said that how
chemists provided vehicles to health department for shifting the hospital
equipments during the dead of night.

Official sources at M&CC Anantnag told to Kashmir Observer that medical
superintend has ordered doctors to convert a ward into theater unethically. "Our
theater suffered damage in a fire incident last week and so we were directed to
convert a ward into theater that is totally against the ethics," a doctor
wishing anonymity said.

He acknowledged that hospital was shifted back under political pressure.
"Government has ordered a year earlier to shift the hospital as according to
Fire and Emergency Services hospital building is unsafe but due to political
interference precious lives are being put at risk." He added. 100 bedded
Maternity and Child Care Hospital Anantnag has highest bed occupancy in South
Kashmir according to  official records and is catering rush from not only south
Kashmir but from the far flung areas including Banihal. "If we go through ethics
then there should be a proper space from bed to bed in  recovery ward but if you
will visit the hospital you will find that wards are crammed and there is no
space between the beds for doctors to do check up rounds."

A lady, whishing not to be named said. South Kashmir Civil Society has already
threatened to lunch  agitation if the administration does not shift the hospital
to new building at Janglat Mandi. "We will not allow political parties to
politicize our health care sector." Rao Farman Ali, spokesman SKCS said. "It is
a demand of public that the hospital be shifted  to a new building  which is
comparatively better than old one." He said that all the narrow road links to
old hospital building are creating lot of problems to patients and is difficult
to be reached so the authorities must reconsider decision in the interest of
public.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2015 Kashmir Observer, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

Political meddling in affairs of Narayani Hospital

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 341  words


BIRGUNJ: It has been learnt that Narayani Sub-Regional Hospital in Birgunj is
under tremendous political pressure not to evict people, who have been using the
hospital's shutters illegally for years.

A meeting of the hospital development committee held on October 5 had decided to
evict tenants who had been using the hospital's shutters and call for new
quotation bid for a new agreement.

The committee had taken initiatives in this regard with a view to increasing the
hospital's income. However, political leaders started to apply pressure
immediately after the hospital authority made public its decision.

"Immediately after we publicised the decision to call for new bids, leaders of
different parties started to pressure us not to evict traders who had been using
the hospital shutters," said Dr Ramashankar Thakur, medical superintendent of
the hospital. He further said, "The trend of putting pressure is on. Employee
union, human rights activists and political leaders are forcing us to revoke our
decision." However, Santosh Singh, central member of the hospital development
committee employee union, expressed his union's solidarity with the hospital
management's decision.

A hospital source said that if the shutters were given on the basis of new bids,
the hospital would gain four times more rent compared to the present.

The hospital has neither increased the rent nor renewed the contract for the
past six years though they ought to have been updated every two years.

Hence, the committee has been charged with financial irregularities. On the
other hand, hospital staff, traders and the union members who have been using
the shutters are accused of renting them to third parties at a huge margin.

Nepal Medical Association, Birgunj, Chairman Dr Rabindra Singh said no party
should interfere in the initiatives the hospital has taken for utilisation of
its property.

Medical shops operating in the building next to the hospital are paying Rs
25,000 every month but those renting the hospital shutters have been paying only
Rs 5000 to 6000.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday

red shirts protest

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 751 words


thai pain is singapore's gain as medical tourists go elsewhere

Crisis has hit hospitals in Bangkok but some expat patients have only deferred
non-urgent surgery or treatment

Nalin Viboonchart

The Nation

The prolonged political crisis has hit the medical tourism industry, as
international patients lose confidence in the Kingdom and in many cases fly to
chief competitor Singapore, instead.

However, some private hospitals are keeping their revenue projections for this
year unchanged, having recorded impressive operating results in the first
quarter.

Chatree Duangnet, CEO of Bangkok Hospital Medical Centre, the operator of
Bangkok Hospital, which is under the umbrella of Bangkok Dusit Medical Services
(BDMS), said recently that many countries had warned citizens to avoid
travelling to Thailand. As a result, insurance companies in those countries are
refusing to cover medical treatment performed here. Some foreign patients whose
conditions are serious and who cannot wait for the situation in Thailand to be
resolved have already opted for Singapore or other destinations. This was
reflected in a decline in international-patient numbers at Bangkok Hospital in
the second quarter, Chatree said.

"Hospitals in Singapore are seeing a windfall, as foreign patients have shifted
to the country to avoid the violence in Thailand. However, I believe it is a
temporary problem. Once the political turmoil ends, they [international
patients] will again show a preference for Thailand over other destinations,
because of our kind people, better service and quality tourism destinations," he
said.

If the political demonstrations end soon, he said, Bangkok Hospital's
foreign-patient numbers would pick up again as patients who put their plans on
hold resumed them.

Chatree said that while foreign-patient numbers had dropped, the number of Thais
coming to Bangkok Hospital had increased, as many patients were opting to avoid
hospitals in the centre of Bangkok.

Furthermore, patient numbers at Bangkok Hospital branches upcountry had
increased, he said, adding that Bangkok Hospital was taking full advantage of
its nationwide network.

Chatree said that despite the political turmoil, BDMS retained its revenue
target of 7- to 9-per-cent growth from Bt22.175 billion last year, because of
its impres-sive operating results in the first quarter of this year. The
company's revenue in the first three months grew by 13 per cent compared with
the same period of 2009.

Kenneth Mays, senior director, hospital marketing and business development, at
Bumrungrad Hospital, said that international-patient numbers had been affected
right from the very beginning of the red-shirt demonstration on March 12,
because the subsequent decline in the overall tourism industry had also reduced
the number of tourists seeking unexpected medical treatment.

Bumrungrad has seen a small decline in medical travellers. Patients from regions
such as the Middle East, Africa and Central and South Asia seem to be less
sensitive to political developments than those from North America, China and
Southeast Asia, Mays said.

Meanwhile, many expat patients, concerned about their safety while travelling in
Bangkok, have postponed non-urgent medical treatments, he said.

Mays said Bumrungrad would maintain its business plan for this year, which is
based on boosting client numbers. The hospital recently opened a Women's Centre,
and inpatient room upgrades were completed last week. The hospital is also
adding overseas representatives to help expand its outreach to new international
markets in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, he said.

Chokchai Jarusiripipat, newly appointed director of Samitivej Sukhumvit
Hospital, said the prolonged political crisis had had a minimal impact at his
hospital as foreign clients accounted for only 2 per cent of overall patient
numbers. Most of the hospital's foreign patients are expats, particularly
Japanese living on Sukhumvit Rd and Soi Thong Lo, which are close to Samitivej
Sukhumvit Hospital.

He said the hospital had not adjusted its medical ser-vice fees this year.
Moreover, the hospital has organised many medical activities to attract both
Thais and international patients.

Samitivej has also designed affordable medical packages and optimised medical
costs for some patients who cannot access hospitals in central Bangkok, he said.

"We are continuing with these policies despite the political tension. And we're
confident that our revenue this year will grow by 9 to 10 per cent, as planned,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     April 15, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Pakistani political feud blamed for hospital blast that kills six

BYLINE: AP; NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: LAHORE, Pakistan


A bomb tucked under a sofa exploded in the crowded waiting room of Pakistan's
only cancer hospital yesterday, killing at least six people, injuring more than
20, and adding a grim twist to a personal and political feud many Pakistanis
contend could have a profound impact on their country's future.

Imran Khan, a popular former cricket star who runs the hospital in central
Pakistan, said the attack was intended to discourage him from entering politics.

"This was meant to frighten us, but we will fight on," Khan said amid the
wreckage at Shaukat Khanum Memorial Trust Hospital in Lahore. "This kind of
action cannot stop us."

Between 100 and 150 patients were in the waiting room of the chemotherapy ward's
outpatient clinic when the bomb blew up, a hospital spokesman said.

"There was blood everywhere," said Kashif Chaudhry, who works in the hospital's
marketing department.

"There were two bodies lying right in front of me. Furniture was blasted in all
directions and windows and doors were destroyed."

Three people, including a 12-year-old boy, were burned to death in a fire
started by the blast. Three others died later from their injuries, said Khan's
spokesman, Mubashir Ahmed.

At least 10 people were critically injured and 10 more were hurt less seriously,
Ahmed said.

The explosion was so powerful it blew out the glass from several parked cars in
the hospital's parking lot, more than 400 metres away, Chaudhry said.

It was unclear who planted the bomb. Khan, an outspoken critic of Pakistan's
political parties, has upset a growing number of opponents, and has said in
recent days that he is on the verge of starting a political movement to topple
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was a fellow student with Khan at Oxford
University 20 years ago.

The blast came amid intensifying political violence in Pakistan.

Khan, who gained widespread popularity among Pakistan's 130 million people when
his team won cricket's world championship for the first time in 1992, has been
sharply critical of the country's feuding political class, which he has
described as "a culture of corruption and injustice."

Many of his criticisms have been aimed particularly at Bhutto, whom Khan has
accused of leading a government obsessed with political vendettas and
self-enrichment.

Bhutto has responded by targeting Khan with income-tax investigations, a ban on
fundraising events for the cancer hospital in schools and other government-run
institutions, and a blackout on reports about the hospital on the state-run
broadcasting network.

After yesterday's explosion, Bhutto made her first visit to the hospital,
calling the blast "a deplorable attack" and hinting that it might have been the
work of loyalists of Pakistan's main opposition leader, Nawaz Sharif. Sharif,
who has tried and failed to recruit Khan as an ally, denied the allegation.

Khan has stirred controversy in Pakistan for what his critics call hypocrisy.

He has described the country's political elite as "brown sahibs" - meaning that
their attitudes and lifestyles, in a Muslim country, mimicked those of the
British rulers of colonial India.

Opponents responded that Khan, during his cricket career, was one of the most
photographed playboys of London's West End.

Last summer, Khan stunned many Pakistanis by marrying Jemima Goldsmith, who is
the daughter of James Goldsmith, an Anglo-French business tycoon. After Muslim
ceremonies in Paris and a civil wedding in London, Goldsmith, who adopted the
Muslim name Haiqa and converted to Islam, made a home with Khan in Lahore.

But criticism of Khan seems to have made little impact.

The $ 22 million needed to build the cancer hospital was raised in part on a
tour in which Khan walked through Pakistan's slums and villages, accepting
donations of a few rupees.

When Khan showed a visitor around the hospital two weeks ago, patients and
relatives, some of whom had travelled hundreds of kilometres to the hospital,
greeted him with cries of "Long Live the Great Khan!"

A 28-year-old woman named Farzana, mother of a 5-year-old boy undergoing
chemotherapy, said she was illiterate and had never voted, but would if Khan
were a candidate.

"He might be our next prime minister," she said. "We all adore him."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: AP / Outpatient department of hospital was damaged by
yesterday's bomb blast.

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            November 5, 2010 Friday

Lady doctors complain of harassment

BYLINE:  Erum Zaidi

SECTION: Vol. XXIV No. 269

LENGTH: 519  words


Female house job doctors have expressed serious concerns over the working
atmosphere at Civil Hospital Karachi and said that harassment by some male
paramedical staffers during the job has caused serious mental stress among them.

This harassment is not limited only to female doctors, but it also covers female
paramedical staff that needs attention of the higher authorities towards the
dilemma. As per complaints gathered by TheNation, the newly appointed lady
doctors feel themselves highly insecure while doing long hours duties in
different wards, Outdoor Patient Departments, Intensive Care Unit and the
operations theatres of the CHK. In emergency and normal situation, the entire
burden of patients is mostly borne by the house job doctors at CHK.

"We are already working under poor and unhealthy living conditions at Civil
Hospital. The Staff Rooms available for the junior doctors lack basic facilities
of safe drinking water, proper seating arrangement and clean washrooms.

Nevertheless, the offensive behaviour of the paramedical workers cannot be
tolerated by all means," a fresh doctor, who is completing her house job
training at the General Patient Ward of Civil Hospital, said. "We have brought
this issue into the notice of hospital administration many times by informing
that the male nurses and ward boys do not give proper respect to us. They annoy
and threaten us verbally, psychologically and sometimes sexually without having
any fear and accountability of the hospital management," She added.

Another trainee doctor told this scribe that the junior doctors sometimes face
sexual harassment by the paramedical staffers. She said, "We have lodged several
complaints in written against the criminal and unprofessional behaviour of the
paramedical workers to our In-charge and the relevant Additional Medical
Superintendent but we have not received any type of response on our complaints
from them so far". When Dr Samrina Hashmi, Former General Secretary Pakistan
Medical Association Karachi Chapter, was contacted by TheNation, she said there
is a high-level political interference in the public sector hospitals. Some
political elements among doctors and paramedical staff create hurdles for the
trainee female doctors in fulfilling their professional duties.

They tease, harass and even threat the doctors on the basis of their political
affiliations.

The hospital administration seems helpless in taking any disciplinary action
against them; the political power of such people is evident from the fact that
alleged worker cannot be transferred and suspended in case of doing any
misconduct as belong to different political parties.

They are the workers and supporters of the ruling and opposition parties. There
is no role of punishment and accountability for them. "The only way to get rid
of this problem is to depoliticise public hospitals. In order to improve the
performance of the teaching hospitals, the Government should ban political
activities in the premises of public hospitals. The healthcare institutions
should be free from the interference of the political parties," she added.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2010 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Political leaflets found in hospital

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 301 words


AN ASSEMBLY Member has accused the Welsh Conservatives of "underhand tactics"
after a batch of political leaflets were found in the visitor information area
of a South Wales hospital.

Plaid Cymru AM Bethan Jenkins says leaflets promoting the Welsh Conservatives'
plans for a designated cancer patients fund were discovered at the Princess of
Wales Hospital in Bridgend. She claims Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University (ABMU)
Health Board would never have authorised such political leaflets to be placed in
the hospital.

She said: "With an election just a few months away, health boards need to be
vigilant and carry out regular checks to ensure that political parties are not
trying to push their agendas inside hospitals.

"Perhaps being charitable an over-enthusiastic Tory supporter may have left
these leaflets without the knowledge of the Conservative hierarchy. "But the
Tory leader in Wales needs to distance himself from such underhand tactics. I
would not expect this behaviour from any political party."

Plaid Cymru announced its own national cancer plan for Wales, with action to
improve diagnosis rates and offer more support for patients during and after
treatment.

A spokesman for the Welsh Conservatives it was "a mystery" how the leaflets made
their way into the hospital.

He said: "We will remind all of our supporters that public places such as these
are not appropriate places to campaign."

ABMU Health Board said it conforms to Welsh Government policy on political
campaigning.

A spokesman said: "We do not allow political activity of this nature and any
requests by politicians to visit our premises have to be agreed through the
chief executive's office.

"These leaflets were not left at the Princess of Wales hospital with our
permission. We check regularly for and remove unauthorised literature."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2016 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday

Local politicians protest renaming of Sagarmatha Zonal Hospital

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Oct. 30 -- JITENDRA KUMAR JHA

RAJBIRAJ, Oct 29: The local leaders of various political parties have vehemently
opposed a government's recent decision to rename the Sagarmatha Zonal Hospital.

The government earlier this month had decided to change the name of the hospital
into Gajendra Narayan Singh Hospital.

Due to the opposition from the political parties, the hospital administration
has so far been unable to erase the name of the hopsital at the main gate. Prime
Minister Baburam Bhattarai, who visited Rajbiraj on October 14 after the
government decision, was shown black flags by the local youths. Student unions
of various parties have threatened stringent protests if the govenrment does not
take back the decision.

"The hospital administration has yet to respond to our demand. We remained
silent on the issue because of the Dashain festival. We are planning to announce
protests after holding a meeting with all the student unions soon," said Jaya
Prakash Yadav, secretary of the Free Student Union (FSU) at the Mahendra
Bindeshwari Multiple Campus.

Local leaders of the opposition parties have blamed the government of trying to
obliterate the 50-year-old history of the hospital. "The decision erases the
half-century-long history as well as undermines Sgarmatha (Mt Everest), the
highest peak of the world," said former FSU president of the campus, Samir Jha.
"It is good to recognize politicians but history should not be erased in the
name of doing so," he added.

The protesting side has also alleged that Health Minister Rajendra Mahato, who
is also chairman of Nepal Sadbhawana Party (NSP), attempted to enhance his
public image by renaming the hospital after the name of Singh, founder of NSP.
Local political leaders said with elections on the horizon, changing the name of
the hospital would be illegal.

"It is sensitive issue to change the name of a hospital to enhance political
influence among the people at the time when formal announcement for the new
election has already been made," said Sailendra Sah, the central member of
Madhesi Janadhikar Forum Nepal.

According to central member of CPN-Maoist, Mahesh Yadav said the government
should focus on adding more facilities to the hospital instead of changing the
name.

Central member of Youth Association Nepal, Niranjan Jha, said that Health
minister Mahato tried to gain cheap popularity by renaming the hospital after
the name of a Madhesi leader.

However, Saptari District chairman of NSP, Sunil Jha said that changing name of
the hospital should not be made an issue. He also claimed that after changing
the name, other services will also be expanded in the hospital. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Resentment over lack of facilities at DMC hosp snowballs

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: Dehradun


Dehradun, Aug. 30 -- The commotion in the associated hospital of Government Doon
Medical College (GDMC), the erstwhile Doon hospital, continued on third
consecutive day on Monday.

Lack of facilities and mismanagement at the pathology lab of the biggest
hospital of the State is causing resentment among the patients visiting the
hospital.

The political and social organisations have also registered their strong protest
over the lack of facilities and plight of the patients. During the day activists
of the Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJVM) assembled in the hospital and shouted
slogans against the hospital management.

The State vice-president of the organisation, Sachin Gupta said that the people
are facing more hardships in the hospital ever since it was converted into a
medical college. He said that it is a pity that the leadership of the State has
turned a blind eye on the pathetic state of affairs in the hospital.

Later in the day, former State convener of the Aam Aadami Party (AAP), Anoop
Nautiyal and his supporters met the Medical Superintendent (MS) of the hospital,
Dr KK Tamta. Nautiyal suggested that the number of staff in the pathology of the
hospital should be increased to 30 and a token system should be followed there.

He added that separate queues for male and female patients should be made and
the public address system should be upgraded. Nautiyal said that the MS
appreciated his suggestions and assured that the things would improve within 24
hours.

The MS of the hospital, Dr Tamta said that the hospital administration is trying
to improve manpower, infrastructure and other facilities in the hospital so that
the patients don't face any problem.

However, despite repeated assurances of the State Government the situation in
the hospital is not improving. The shortage of staff, medicines and other
equipment are forcing the patients to agitate. The management of the

hospital started deteriorating ever since the hospital was transferred to the
medical college.

The involvement of the political parties have complicated the situation further
with increasing incidences of political and social workers instigating the
patients and their relatives inside the hospital which is creating regular
ruckus in the hospital.

One of a staff member of the hospital said, "Problems are there in the hospital
but things are being ruined further by petty politicians who openly roam in the
hospital campus and create commotion which is not good for the patients.''

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             May 1, 2013 Wednesday

Team Hospital shut down

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: DADELDHURA


DADELDHURA, May 1 -- The Team Hospital in the district has been shut down due to
protests by staffers of the Human Development Community Services (HDCS), an NGO
assigned to run the health facility, against a recent government decision to
upgrade it as a sub-regional hospital.

Earlier, the government decided to upgrade the hospital following a week-long
protest by local political parties saying that the HDCS failed to run the
hospital effectively. Although the HDCS was supposed to run the hospital till
May 15, the hospital faced closure.

Following this, hundreds of patients from seven hilly districts-Dadeldhura,
Baitadi, Doti, Darchula, Bajhang, Achham and Bajura-have been affected.

Padam Bahadur Rokaya, a CPN-Maoist state committee member, said the HDCS is
exerting pressure on the authorities concerned to authorise it to run the
hospital again.

Durlav Jhukal, local leader of the Nepali Congress, said such an act of the HDCS
has shown how irresponsible it is towards people.

"It is bad to shut the hospital while the government is preparing for an
alternative to the current management," said Dr Rudra Upadhyay of Dadeldhura
District Hospital.

Established 40 years ago by Dr Siman, an American national, the hospital was
handed over to the HDCS four years ago.

Meanwhile, it has been learnt that health equipment of the hospital are being
stolen. Police confiscated a vehicle full of equipment belonging to the hospital
being smuggled to Kathmandu in Kailali on Monday. Superintendent of Police Ghan
Shyam Aryal said some staffers of the hospital were found to be ferrying the
equipment.

A hospital employee said some health equipment have been kept at Biththada in
Bajhang for smuggling.

Local political parties accused the HDCS of deploying its staffers to smuggle
the hospital equipment. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Malta Today

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

A bipartisan policy on health

LENGTH: 1150  words


The two political parties that allowed themselves to be swayed by the doctors'
lobby working in its own interest also used the project and the hospital to gain
other brownie points in their short-sighted electoral wrestling matches.


Michael Falzon

he editorial of last Sunday's issue of the Labour Party's weekly paper
Kul[#x126]add deserves a prize for the most misleading half-truth ever to grace
a leader in that paper. The editorial dwelt on the health sector and had the
temerity to boast that it was a Labour government that decided to enlarge Mater
Dei Hospital - implying that had it not done so, the bed shortage problems there
would have been worse.



This implication is nonsense, as the precursor of what today is 'Mater Dei'
hospital was not originally intended to be a general hospital to replace St
Luke's, a decision taken by the Alfred Sant administration. It was this decision
that necessitated the increase in beds and the enlargement of the hospital.

The story of how this switch was made is, unfortunately, a tale that should give
all political parties a lesson not to let lobbies use the eternal political
tussle to their benefit and to the disadvantage of the common good.

The hospital at Tal-Qroqq was intended to be a specialised hospital that would
reduce the load on St Luke's in particular areas of medical treatment and would
complement St Luke's, not replace it. This was what the 1987-96 Fenech Adami
administrations had planned and started implementing. The idea was also for the
state to have a hospital with a different management system than the one
prevalent at St Luke's - a system that would eventually be adapted in other
hospitals.

Immediately, the doctors' lobby smelled an imaginary rat. They objected to the
idea, saying that there was no need of another hospital. They objected to the
involvement of an Italian hospital group (San Raffaele) because in our medical
confraternity anything that is not British is frowned upon... and because they
realised that in this new hospital they would not be able to call the shots.

From the opposition, then Labour leader Alfred Sant seized on the widening crack
between the PN and the doctors' lobby and immediately adopted their line. He
started referring to the new hospital as a useless Fenech Adami whim (kapricc
ta' Fenech Adami) while promising to dump the project.

When he assumed power in October 1996, Alfred Sant stopped the project and took
quite some time until he got technical advice on what the building, in its
advanced stage, could be used for - as well as legal advice on the commitments
that the government had entered into with the main contractor. He also consulted
the doctors' lobby, with whom he probably had some pre-electoral deal. I say
'probably' because there is no proof to what, in effect, is a hunch of mine.


The end result was that, with the connivance of the doctors' union, Alfred Sant
decided to switch the half-built hospital project at Tal-Qroqq into a much
larger one: a general hospital replacing St Luke's. That is how Labour
'enlarged' the hospital that was afterwards baptised 'Mater Dei' by a later
Fenech Adami administration.



To this day, I do not know why the subsequent 1998 Fenech Adami administration -
elected just 22 months into the Alfred Sant government - did not reverse the
decision and revert to the original plan. My hunch, again, is that it did not
want to rock the boat again with the doctors' lobby. So it continued on the
Alfred Sant plan and invested a record sum in what became the most expensive
'state of the art' hospital in Malta's history, a hospital that is now
considered to be inadequate as far as the number of available beds is concerned.




There lies the tale of woe that is the history of 'Mater Dei'. The two political
parties that allowed themselves to be swayed by the doctors' lobby working in
its own interest also used the project and the hospital to gain other brownie
points in their short-sighted electoral wrestling matches.



During its construction, Labour had a field day with unproven allegations of
imaginary corruption lurking behind every contract and then, when the hospital
was functioning, it had another field day with its bed shortage problems. Now in
government, it is the PN's turn to have a field day on the bed shortage problem!




Most of this problem is a management problem: the management of St Luke's was
practically transferred to Mater Dei together with work practices that benefit
doctors and nurses to the detriment of good management.



Subsequently we have had uncosted deals in the form of agreements with unions
that lead to the agreed salary increases but not to the promised improvement in
efficiency - usually signed on the eve of elections. Add political interference
and you get a rough idea of the mess that former Labour Minister Godfrey
Farrugia could not sort out and that the incumbent Konrad Mizzi is grappling
with.



The mess is simply a management problem because the medical treatment has always
been, and still is, first class. Our doctors and nurses deserve maximum points
for this but they get zilch for using their clout to emasculate attempts at
efficient and cost-effective hospital management, to their advantage.



In the meantime St Luke's hospital has been left underutilised with most of it
abandoned while the politicians (of both parties) cannot think what to do with
it.


Considering this retrospective of the Mater Dei tale in mind, the PN spokesman
on health, Claudio Grech, should be congratulated for proposing that the two
political parties should agree on a bipartisan policy and approach on health.
Such an approach has never been arrived at because the party in opposition has
always sought short term advantages in the electoral tussle, rather than
cooperation with the government for long term efficiency in health services. As
a result, they have fallen victims of the doctors', nurses' and other lobbies
that have historically excelled in using the rivalry between the political
parties to their advantage.



In Opposition, the PN has the opportunity to emulate Labour in opposition and
take the sides of the various lobbies that push for their interests and then
denigrate the government for not delivering the promised results.



Instead it has looked at the matter with a wider and saner perspective: it has
suggested that a consensus should be found on health issues with an agreed
bipartisan policy. In doing so it is consciously ditching the opportunity to use
problems in the health service as short-term electoral ploys.



Rather than publishing editorials that talk of health policy in terms of the
permanent confrontation between Labour and the PN, Kul[#x126]add should have
given us the official Labour reaction to Claudio Grech's proposal.



This is an opportunity not to be missed.



Michael Falzon is a former government minister who served under several
Nationalist admini...

More from Michael Falzon


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1592


                       Copyright 2014 MediaToday Co. Ltd
               Provided by Syndigate.info,an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday
                                 Drive Edition

Physician-owned hospital doctors are major political contributors

BYLINE: RANDY ELLIS, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 199 words



Spine doctors in Oklahoma City and Tulsa have given more than $640,000 in
political contributions in recent years as the Oklahoma Legislature repeatedly
has taken up workers' compensation legislation that could impact their income.

An analysis of contributions by doctors associated with Oklahoma Spine Hospital
in Oklahoma City and entities they control revealed they made more than $340,000
in political contributions in recent years. Doctors associated with Tulsa Spine
and Specialty Hospital in Tulsa and entities they control gave more than
$300,000.

The largest contribution was a $30,000 donation that the Oklahoma Spine Hospital
gave to the Majority Fund last October. The Majority Fund is a political action
committee that spent more than $130,000 supporting Republican state House
candidates last October and November, records show.

Other major donations included $20,000 that the Oklahoma Spine Hospital gave to
the Oklahoma Speaker's Ball in 2012 and $13,750 that the Tulsa Spine and
Specialty Hospital gave to the Speaker's Ball from 2007 through 2012. The
Speaker's Ball is a big party hosted by the speaker of the state House of
Representatives before the start of each session.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2013 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            March 26, 2016 Saturday

Public unease: Response sought in case of VIP visits to hospitals

LENGTH: 432  words


The Peshawar High Court sought comments on Friday from the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa
government through the chief secretary, health secretary and health director
general on political leaders' visits to hospitals with their protocol during
emergency situations.

VIP visits at times of emergencies such as blasts or large accidents hinder
doctors and paramedics who are trying to treat victims, said lawyer Saifullah
Kakakhel. He was addressing the division bench of Justice Waqar Ahmed Seth and
Justice Irshad Qaiser who issued the notices on a petition filed by Pakistan
Medical Association (PMA) through its K-P president, Dr Hussain Ahmad Haroon.
Political leaders visit the hospitals along with dozens of their supporters to
enquire about those injured in major incidents like blasts. [To convenience the
VIPs], all roads leading to hospitals are closed as a security measure.

Saifullah added the closure of roads causes serious problems to visiting
patients. These patients then also refused entry into the hospital as security
is heighted for VIPs. He asked the bench to ban VIP visits to hospitals.

Mohibullah Kakakhel, was another counsel for the petitioner, along with
Saifullah.

After hearing the arguments, the bench issued notices to the respondents,
directing them to file comments within seven days.

Request for space

In its petition, PMA said leaders of various political parties visit hospitals
along with dozens of party workers who after enquiring [about the health of] few
injured make speeches and leave. It said their visits make it difficult for
doctors and nursing staff to handle those injured during blasts and other major
incidents. The petition said several persons have lost their lives due to such
visits.

A notice ignored

The petition went on to say the provincial government issued a notification on
December 26, 2015, banning unnecessary protocol for any leader [at hospitals].

However, after the blast in Shabqadar courts on March 7, Lady Reading Hospital
in Peshawar was surrounded by security personnel ahead of the health minister's
visit - in violation of the notification.

The example of Britain was also quoted where a surgeon prevented Prime Minister
David Cameron's visit to the hospital. The petition mentioned Jamaat-e-Islami
chief Sirajul Haq along with dozens of his supporters, stating these political
leaders visit hospitals and leave after speeches and photo sessions.

The petition asked the bench to ban the visits of political leaders as well as
officials of NGOs to hospital on such occasions so doctors and paramedics could
treat the injured during emergencies.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                             March 18, 2016 Friday

Unnecessary protocol: PHC requested to ban VIP visits at hospitals during
emergencies

LENGTH: 315  words


Pakistan Medical Association approached the Peshawar High Court on Thursday to
ban political leaders from visiting hospitals to see victims of major terrorism
incidents and catastrophes.

A writ petition was filed by Dr Hussain Ahmad Haroon through his lawyer, Mian
Mohibullah Kakakhel. The petitioner said leaders of various political parties
visit hospitals along with dozens of their workers.

As per the petition, all roads and gates leading to hospitals are closed due to
these visits. This not only causes problems for patients but also makes it
difficult for doctors and nurses to attend to the needs of those who have been
injured in blasts and other major incidents.

The petition stated that several people have lost their lives because these VIP
visits have interfered with their treatment. It added a six-year-old minor lost
his life in Karachi as he could not be taken to the hospital. According to the
petition, the road to the hospital was closed because Pakistan Peoples Party
Co-Chairperson Bilawal Bhutto Zardari was visiting the facility.

The provincial government issued a notification on December 26, 2015 banning
unnecessary protocol for a [politician] or leader [at hospitals], it stated.

However, after an attack on a court complex in Shabqadar on March 7, Lady
Reading Hospital was surrounded by security personnel before Minister for Health
Shahram Khan Tarakai visited the premises. As per the petition, the visit
violated the notification.

The petition stated political leaders visit the hospital to make speeches and
ensure they appear on television.

Haroon made the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa chief secretary, health secretary and the
health DGs respondents in the case. The petitioner requested the bench to ban
the visit of political leaders and NGO officials at hospitals.

Following a bus explosion on Sunehri Masjid Road on March 17, a large number of
politicians arrived at LRH.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Redditch Advertiser

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday

Kidderminster joins fight for survival

SECTION: LATETS (REDD NEWS LATEST)

LENGTH: 345 words


KIDDERMINSTER Hospital could be "fire fighting" if people leave it too late to
come together and fight plans that could see it closed, according to political
leaders.

Protest group, The Kidderminster Hospital Alliance, is being set up with a view
to uniting political parties, interest groups and residents and put forward a
petition to save the town's hospital.

It comes almost a month after clinicians released six options for the future of
Worcestershire's acute hospital services as part of the county's NHS joint
services review.

Redditch's Alexandra Hospital faces the possible closure of its A&E department
and the Save The Alex petition has already received more than 25,000 signatures.

It has raised concerns Kidderminster has fallen too far behind Redditch in its
campaign and although political leaders have warned against a "battle" between
the towns, one model would see either Redditch or Kidderminster closed.

In a joint statement, Labour's Howard Martin, Green Party spokesman Stephen
Brown, UKIP's Michael Wrench and Liberal Democrat Neville Farmer said they would
facilitate the setting up of the Alliance and support it to become self-reliant.

Mr Martin said: "We need to move quicker and we need to be broader. We are
trying to set up something which represents all political views and community
groups.

"If we do not talk about the options we cannot put together a rational argument
for why Kidderminster must not suffer before it is cast in stone.

"Some seem to be waiting for more details but if we leave it too long we will
just be fire fighting. We need to work now to minimise the effect on
Kidderminster Hospital."

Mr Martin said he wanted the campaign to include all political parties, groups
such as Diabetes UK and Disability Action Wyre Forest and all residents.

Wyre Forest MP, Conservative Mark Garnier, added: "With all organisations
involved this will show good unity in the efforts to preserve hospital services
at Kidderminster."

The next step for the Alliance will be to rally groups as well as put together a
petition and public awareness events.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                             April 22, 2007, Sunday
                                 North Edition

March for hospital

BYLINE: Catherine Evans Wales on Sunday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 399 words


Hundreds marched through Llandudno yesterday in protest at plans to strip their
local hospital of services.

Health chiefs have proposed the transfer of acute medical units at Llandudno
Hospital - including coronary care - to other areas of North Wales.

But campaigners say they want hospital services 'upgraded, not downgraded',
insisting it would not be viable to travel to other hospitals in the area for
treatment.

In September, campaigners won a battle to preserve the hospital's cancer unit,
but other services remain under threat.

The local health board said it was working to make the best use of the hospital
in the future.

Around 300 people marched through Llandudno's high street to the town hall,
where candidates for the forthcoming Assembly Election spoke at the rally to
voice their concerns.

Linda Groom, from the Hospital Action Group said: 'We've thrown down the
gauntlet to the political parties to tell us what they will do - and tell the
public what they will do to the hospital - if they are elected.'

Speaking before the rally, Conservative candidate Dylan Jones-Evans said: 'We
are still very, very worried here.

'People are worried about the slicing of services. Llandudno Hospital's general
role will diminish and the threat to the coronary care unit could mean that
people's lives will be at risk.

'All the political parties have backed the hospital action support group. It's
easy for politicians to say we will do this and that, but it's been a
community-led campaign

.'

But Labour's Denise Idris Jones, the area's current AM, said: 'The main issues
are that the hospital has always been safe and never under threat.

'As a risk associated with breast cancer is osteoporosis, we have just put a
new, very expensive dexa scanner - a bone scanner - into the hospital, which is
very good news, and the intention is to create a centre of breast cancer
excellence.

'The action group are doing a wonderful job - it shows just how much us women
can do.'

And Plaid Cymru candidate Gareth Jones said: 'The proposals which I started
campaigning against are still very much on the table. No decision has been made
and they have not been withdrawn.

'My personal view as a resident who has had the benefit of this hospital is that
this strategy is flawed - they haven't considered the patients' needs first.'

A Labour spokesman said: 'Labour has committed itself to the future of Llandudno
Hospital.

'

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Financial Post (Pakistan)

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Call to remove political parties flags from major healthcares

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, June 17 -- Medical wings of political parties have converted the city's
major healthcares into political pitch by installing huge banners, party flags
and posters of their leaders in the premises of health institutions while
administrations seemed to be hapless in front of polticaly backed powerful
activists.

Sources said the breach of medical ethics in public hospitals visible in every
hospital of Karachi. Quoting example medical wings of different political
parties had totally changed the atmosphere of National Institute of Child Health
(NICH) and had turned it into political arena rather than healthcare.He said
activists of medical wings of political parties installed huge banners, posters
and party flags of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz),
Pakistan Muslim League (Functional) and Islmi Jamiat-e-Talaba (IJT) in different
wards and entrances or exit of hospital. He said wall chalking were also visible
in wards and institution had turned into party secretariat. Sources said no any
place of NICH was spared from these banners and posters. He said this
malpractice had been seen in all other hospitals of Karachi city including
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi, Abbasi Shaheed
Hospital and other healthcares but situation in NICH was worst as compared to
other hospitals of city. He said institution atmosphere had badly been disturbed
due to cold attitude of relevant authorities.

He said whenever administration takes a step to remove the politically installed
banners he activists start hue and cry against administration. He informed that
700 to 800 patient visits different Outpatient Department of NICH for treatment
on daily basis and 18,000 children get treatment every month in institution.

He demanded of Health Minister Sindh and Executive Director NICH to take action
against staff members damaging the institution reputation in public eyes.

Central leader of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad said
health institutors and dispensaries should be freed from politics as they
provide treatment to all segments of society without any discrimination. He said
PMA had clear stance on issue that the health institutions should be spared from
all kind of political interferences.

He said health institutions should be utilized for health facilities. He
appealed to the medical wings of political parties to voluntarily remove all the
party flags, posters, banners and wall chalking in better interest of public
health and revival of institution atmosphere.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Post. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Daily Financial Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 27, 1995, Monday, City Edition

Delay setting hospital vote draws heat

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



If this is the start of a trend, then Mayor Anita Protos is getting worried
about next month's election.

She said a handful of people already have told her they won't be voting for  her
on Election Day because she voted Tuesday to postpone setting a referendum  date
on Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital's proposed partnership deal with the  nation's
largest health-care chain.

Protos, who led a three-vote majority, said she needed more information.  Others
have accused the commissioners of stalling on the hottest issue in  Tarpon
Springs in years.

"If they judge me on this one issue it's sad," Protos said.

But it could happen.

Protos and other incumbents have seen signs that this issue could become a
900-pound political gorilla, dominating the March 21 election in which three
commission seats - including the mayor's - are up for grabs.

"Any time you have an emotional issue, people tend to take that to the  polls,"
said Commissioner Cindy Domino, who is up for re-election.

The debate over whether the hospital should merge with Columbia/HCA  Healthcare
Corp. has divided sentiment in the community and sent residents and
commissioners alike grasping for more information.

Those opposed to the partnership have said they fear losing local control  of
Helen Ellis Memorial to a corporate giant, while those in favor of the deal  say
it means the hospital will be able to survive in these changing  health-care
times.

While the debate now is over when to set a referendum, the lease referendum  is
the linchpin of the partnership deal.

The hospital and Columbia/HCA need a new 30-year lease with the city if  they
are to pull off the proposed affiliation. The hospital's current lease  isn't
transferable because the new partnership would make Helen Ellis Memorial  a
for-profit hospital.

"I was just thinking the hospital is so important no one would turn it  into a
political issue, but that illusion was shattered Tuesday night,"  Commissioner
Dudley Salley said.

Before a packed audience, Tuesday's commission meeting saw the two mayoral
candidates - Protos and Commissioner Blaine LeCouris - take opposite sides on
whether to set a May or June referendum, or wait for more information and
decide after next month's election on a date.

Protos, Salley and Commissioner Karen Brayboy wanted to wait; LeCouris and
Domino didn't.

"What does politics have to do with it?" LeCouris said. "If you don't  have the
guts to make a decision, you shouldn't be sitting on that board. I'm  willing to
take my stand on it."

Former Commissioner John Tarapani said politics had a lot to do with  Tuesday's
decision.

"I think Blaine and Cindy used it as a political tool, they saw a lot of  votes
out there in the audience," Tarapani said.

Both LeCouris and Domino said their votes on the hospital aren't swayed by  the
upcoming election.

"If I had to play on the hospital issue to try and get votes so I could  get
elected, then I'm not good for this town and I would rather get  defeated,"
LeCouris said.

A referendum would let voters decide whether the city should okay a new  lease
for the hospital if it becomes partners with Columbia/HCA and changes to  a
for-profit hospital.

The hospital has pushed for a referendum date to be set for May or June,
because as Columbia/HCA begins to negotiate new managed care contracts, the
company needs to know whether Helen Ellis Memorial will be included in its
chain of hospitals.

While Protos said she agrees a referendum date needs to be set, she wasn't
ready to do it Tuesday night. She wants to wait for more information from the
lawyers hired by the commission to advise them on the deal.

"It should not be a political issue," she said. "If people make it  political,
they're hurting the hospital - it's a business decision to be made.  We need to
have time to gather more information."

While some say the hospital affiliation hasn't yet turned into a political  hot
potato, many concede that it could.

"We don't want it to become political," hospital administrator Joseph  Kiefer
said. But "some of the people who are running don't want to have to  take a
position one way or another because they feel they will lose votes or  lose
financial support."

Hospital officials have said they want to affiliate with Columbia/HCA to  ensure
Helen Ellis Memorial's future viability. Joining a chain will stop  Helen Ellis,
now an independent hospital, from being excluded from some  managed care
networks and making it unavailable to some patients.

Columbia/HCA, based in Louisville, Ky., owns or is affiliated with 195
hospitals and 125 outpatient centers in 34 states and in Europe.

City Manager Costa Vatikiotis warned there is a danger to candidates using
their stand on the hospital deal as a way to get votes.

"Politics is the science of compromise for the benefit of society, but  usually
it doesn't involve business decisions," Vatikiotis said. "If the  cloud of
politics parks itself over this issue, the right information may not  be
conveyed."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Anita Protos

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


                              56 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday

Ironic politics in Maine hospital debt debate

LENGTH: 675 words


Maine's continuing hospital debt dispute demonstrates the often befuddling,
contradictory political process of creating legislation. But the latest twist
might just provide the political cover Gov. Paul LePage needs to allow Medicaid
expansion to go forward.


Think of what could have been accomplished if it had been politically possible
for Democratic and Republican lawmakers to meet with LePage months ago and
negotiate a plan to repay the hospital debt, issue a new liquor contract and
expand Medicaid. It may have looked like what the Democrats are now proposing:
Pay the hospitals the debt they are owed by issuing revenue bonds backed by the
state's future liquor revenue (LePage's idea) and agree to expand Medicaid under
the Affordable Care Act (mostly supported publicly by Democrats).


Yet the resistance has been fierce. LePage called the Democrats ' proposal an
"ultimatum," "a sin" and "criminal." House Minority Leader Ken Fredette,
R-Newport, called it an "irresponsible, last-minute stunt." The House Republican
Office issued a press release detailing times in the last two months when
Democratic legislators complained about tying one legislative initiative to
another.


Political irony abounds. Democrats initially resisted tying together the liquor
contract and hospital payback plan -- until they put together a plan to do just
that. Their proposal at first, though, required a large upfront payment from the
winning liquor vendor to pay the hospitals rather than a revenue bond. Now --
after an independent analysis revealed the upfront payment would cost the state
more in the long term -- Democratic leaders are putting together a new bill. It
would have revenue bonds pay off the hospital debt, just as LePage wants, and
require the state to expand Medicaid access by raising income eligibility
limits, just as a majority of polled Maine residents want.


Meanwhile, Republicans encountered their own political irony. Fredette on Monday
issued a statement to say the hospital payback plan "deserves a clean,
up-or-down vote," even though the plan has never been solely about paying off
the hospital debt. LePage has also tied in voter-approved bonds, saying he will
not release them until the Legislature approves a hospital-repayment plan. The
state's hospitals are owed $484 million, dating back to 2009, because they
provided services to Medicaid patients but were not reimbursed.


Ideally, LePage and other Republicans would agree to Medicaid expansion based on
its own merits: providing all Maine residents access to health care. Analyses
have shown Maine is likely to get a good deal in terms of federal funding,
especially in comparison to other states. But if LePage has so far not agreed to
expand Medicaid, what would have to change for him to do so?


The Democrats may have finally hit the political sore spot: Will LePage veto a
bill that does exactly what he has been requesting for months -- pay back the
hospitals -- if it includes Medicaid expansion? The politics may have been
convoluted until this point, but the intention is clear: The odds are greater
that he'll approve an omnibus bill that includes the hospital payback plan than
a bill that only addresses Medicaid expansion.


The Democrats' bill may give LePage the opportunity to expand Medicaid and
simultaneously appease his base. He can say Democrats forced the issue, and he
took the high road to pay the hospitals. Or, he could finally come around to
Medicaid expansion, as other Republican governors have done, and recognize that
he would be supporting the hospitals by expanding Medicaid.


After all, the Maine Hospital Association, which represents the state's 39
hospitals, supports both getting the money they are owed and expanding coverage
for Maine's low-income residents.


Members of each party face their own political ironies. The ultimate question is
whether the GOP will be willing to bend as Democrats have, acknowledge their
contradictions, and move on. In the end, the policy, not the politics, will have
the longest-lasting impact on Maine people.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Bangor Daily News


                              57 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 4, 1991, Sunday

Hospital trusts to spread

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 342 words


WILLIAM Waldegrave, the Secretary of State for Health, will shrug off criticism
of the Government's health policies this week and promise to press ahead with a
second tranche of hospital trusts.

Mr Waldegrave is expected to make explicit that the Government expects most
major hospitals to ''opt out'' eventually, and to announce the number of
hospitals which have asked to be included in the second wave. More than 110 will
be listed.

Mr Waldegrave will also begin the push for a third tranche of hospital trusts
and state that several expressions of interest have been made. Results of these
applications could be made before the general election if John Major waits until
1992 to go to the country.

Although the tone of Mr Waldegrave's comments will be measured, he will
underline that there is no question of the Government softening or delaying its
implementation of the internal market in the NHS in the face of electoral
pressures.

The move on health is a high- risk strategy, with some Conservatives arguing
that it will move the political agenda back to Labour's strongest area. The
Tories' opinion poll set-back after the Monmouth by-election was widely seen as
being linked to the political row over health which dominated campaigning.

Some Tory strategists believe that with health now lower on the public's list of
concerns, Mr Waldegrave is ill-advised to raise the trust issue again. However,
with health changes gaining their own momentum, ministers feel obliged to press
ahead with the timetable.

The hospitals which have put their names forward for the second tranche include
Royal Victoria Infirmary and Dental Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne; St Mary's
Hospital, Paddington, London; Bournemouth and Christchurch acute unit and
Walsgrave Hospital, Coventry.

Mr Waldegrave may be able to announce that a number of hospitals have won
approval when he makes his speech at the Conservative Party Conference at
Blackpool in October. Applications will be screened to try to eliminate cases
which result in bad publicity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                              58 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      January 25, 2016 Monday 3:19 PM GMT

Conservatives accused of 'underhand tactics' after political leaflets are found
in South Wales hospital;
But a spokesman for the Welsh Conservatives said it was 'a mystery' how the
leaflets made their way into the Princess of Wales Hospital

BYLINE: By Mark Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 507 words


An Assembly Member has accused the Welsh Conservatives of "underhand tactics"
after a batch of political leaflets were found in the visitor information area
of a South Wales hospital.

Plaid Cymru AM Bethan Jenkins says leaflets promoting the Welsh Conservatives'
plans for a designated cancer patients fund were discovered in the Princess of
Wales Hospital in Bridgend.

She claims Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University (ABMU) Health Board would never
have authorised such political leaflets to be placed in the hospital.

She said: "A colleague of mine was visiting a relative at the Princess of Wales
Hospital over the Christmas recess and discovered a batch of Conservative Party
leaflets in the visitor information area. Naturally, he removed them.

"I can't imagine for one minute that they were authorised by the health board.

Read more: Two Welsh health boards 'likely to overspend' this financial year,
says Health Minister

"But with an election just a few months away, health boards need to be vigilant
and carry out regular checks to ensure that political parties are not trying to
push their agendas inside hospitals.

"Perhaps being charitable an over-enthusiastic Tory supporter may have left
these leaflets without the knowledge of the Conservative hierarchy.

"But the Tory leader in Wales needs to distance himself from such underhand
tactics. I would not expect this behaviour from any political party."

Plaid Cymru has announced its own national cancer plan for Wales, with action to
improve diagnosis rates and offer more support for patients during and after
treatment.

Bethan Jenkins added: "But Plaid Cymru won't be targeting hospital patients and
visitors by leaving leaflets inside hospitals.

"We'll use the normal channels such as speaking to people on the streets, in
their homes and through the media."

A spokesman for the Welsh Conservatives said it was "a mystery" how the leaflets
made their way into the Princess of Wales Hospital.

He said: "We will remind all of our supporters that public places such as these
are not appropriate places to campaign.

"Having said that, the nationalists have highlighted an important issue about
access to cancer treatments in Wales.

"Perhaps Bethan Jenkins can explain why her party has supported Welsh Labour
budgets which have decimated the Welsh NHS, and left Welsh patients facing an
unacceptable postcode lottery in regards to access to drugs?

"The Welsh Conservatives are the only party committed to introducing a dedicated
Cancer Patients Fund to improve access to life-prolonging treatments for Welsh
patients."

ABMU Health Board said it conforms to Welsh Government policy on political
campaigning.

"We do not allow political activity of this nature and any requests by
politicians to visit our premises have to be agreed through the Chief
Executive's office.

Read more: The 12 AMs who will receive payoffs of up to £65k each when they
stand down in May

"These leaflets were not left at the Princess of Wales hospital with our
permission.

"We check regularly for and remove unauthorised literature."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily News (South Africa)

                            July 19, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Protocol is required for state hospital visits

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 266 words


With reference to the article "DA barred from state hospitals" (Daily News, July
11), one can only describe the actions of the DA as political opportunism.

Members of political parties know that they cannot just show up at a hospital or
clinic and purport to be there for oversight reasons.

This is highly disruptive as it means that the hospital or clinic management
must stop attending to patients and entertain the honourable members.

If one were to visit any government institutions, whether it be hospitals,
clinics, schools, a police station or a court, there are protocols to be
followed.

Visits are arranged and organised through the respective portfolio committees.

In the case of health facilities, this is so that arrangements can be made for
minimal disruptions to patients and to ensure that such visits do not interfere
with the doctors' routine rounds and consultations.

The problems plaguing our provincial state hospitals are not new.

There has been a progressive decline in standards and conditions over the years,
which, if a political party like the DA was truly interested, it would have
noticed and created an uproar.

While political expediency trumps good intentions more often than not, I believe
Imraan Keeka and his coterie of DA colleagues are trying to milk the situation
in an attempt to show their "deep concern".

How many oversight visits has he made to state hospitals in the past in which
such furore was caused?

Political capital is a very transactable commodity as we approach 2019.

Make no mistake, the DA will squeeze as much as it can, when it can.

Ramesh Sukdeo

Sydenham

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ND


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday

70% of new hospitals have been built in Labour heartlands

BYLINE: KARYN MILLER AND TOM HARPER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 413 words


SEVEN out of 10 new hospitals open in Labour areas, an investigation by The
Sunday Telegraph has revealed.

In England, 123 constituencies will benefit from schemes, 83 of which - nearly
70 per cent - are Labour seats. Just 24 per cent are held by the Conservatives
and seven per cent by the Lib-Dems.

At the Labour Party Conference in the autumn, Tony Blair boasted that his
Government's hospital-building programme was the "largest ever''. However, the
latest findings will add to fears about political interference in the NHS.

Last week, the Department of Health was forced to publish a series of "heat
maps'' after claims that Patricia Hewitt, the Health Secretary, had ordered
officials to ensure hospital closures did not hit Labour marginals.

Responding to the findings, Andrew Lansley, the shadow health secretary, said:
"Such evidence of ministers trying to gain political advantage from the NHS is
an outrage at a time when services are under pressure from Labour's
mismanagement.''

Steve Webb, the Liberal Democrat health spokesman, said that the percentage of
hospital schemes dedicated to Labour areas, which make up only 54 per cent of
constituencies in England, was disproportionate. "This is evidence of political
bias. It has Patricia Hewitt's fingerprints all over it.''

A spokesman for the Department of Health denied that any political meddling had
taken place. "Patient need, not party politics, drives the building of new NHS
hospitals,'' the spokesman said. "The local NHS, not ministers, puts forward
proposals for new hospitals based on the requirements of local patients.''

Since 1997, the health department has given the go-ahead to 142 hospital
schemes, with a total capital value of more than pounds 18 billion. The majority
are being funded through the much-criticised Private Finance Initiative.

Prominent schemes include the pounds 697 million Birmingham Super Hospital, with
"world-class'' facilities including 1,200 beds and private rooms for half its
patients, in the Labour Edgbaston constituency.

The pounds 422 million University College Hospital, in the Holborn & St Pancras
seat of Frank Dobson, the former health secretary, opened its doors last year.

In Leicester, the city in which Ms Hewitt's seat is located, a pounds 550
million project involving three hospitals is planned.

A pounds 312 million hospital is being built in Margaret Beckett's Derby South
seat, and a pounds 113 million hospital has opened in the Blackburn constituency
of Jack Straw.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Phyathai Hospital puts new investment on hold

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 337 words


The Nation

Phyathai Hospital Group has decided to delay its investment plans and hiring for
this year until the political situation improves, as its hospitals have been
significantly affected by the anti-government protests and the emergency decree.

The political turmoil has reduced the #124number of patients to as much as 20
per cent of the normal level, Att Thongthang, chief executive officer of
Phyathai Hospital Group and Paolo Memorial Hospital Group, said yesterday.

The two companies comprise a Bangkok-based hospital group with five Phyathai
Hospital locations and three Paolo Memorial locations.

He said that that if the situation improved this month, the number of patients
could climb back to about 80 per cent.

The typical annual investment plan of Phyathai Hospital Group is about Bt800
million, mostly for medical equipment, marketing campaigns and the opening of
new treatment centres.

The group, which usually generates annual revenue of about Bt12 billion, will
likely achieve growth of 8 per cent this year, compared to the initial
10-per-cent target, he said.

Phyathai Hospital Group has no merger-and-acquisition plan at this time, due to
the political uncertainty, he added.

To reduce operating costs, it has transferred some staff at locations affected
by the political rallies â[#x20ac]" for example, at Phyathai 1, 2 and 3
hospitals â[#x20ac]" to unaffected hospitals in the group, the CEO said.

As for the projects in which Phyathai Hospital Group has already commenced
investment, it will proceed with its plans, such as construction of the 150-bed
Paolo Memorial (Rangsit), which will be the ninth hospital in the group.

The energy-efficient Paolo Memorial (Rangsit) will be built on 7-8 rai
(1.12-1.28 hectares) of land leased from Future Park Rangsit for 30 years. The
first phase is expected to provide services to clinics and outpatients by the
middle of next year.

Phyathai Hospital Group's patients are 90 per cent Thais, with a rising
proportion of foreigners. In the past, the group catered almost solely to Thais.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                            January 14, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Pollies clash over hospital funding

BYLINE: TIM CONNELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 192 words


PORT Stephens MP Craig Baumann has accused the state government of slashing a
quarter of Tomaree Hospital's budget, but his opponent says he is
scaremongering. Mr Baumann seized on figures showing Tomaree Community Hospital
would receive $900,000 less in the current budget than the previous $4 million
allocation. "Upgrading Tomaree Community Hospital is a priority for me. Clearly
it's not for Labor," Mr Baumann said. "This is a hospital that doesn't even have
an X-ray machine." But the government said the last allocation was inflated by
transport and leave costs no longer calculated in the same figure. "These costs
are now managed centrally in the health service and are not reported in the
2010-11 Tomaree budget figures," a Hunter New England Health spokeswoman said.
"The [last] budget therefore cannot be directly compared to the quoted 2009-10
budget." Mr Baumann called the statement "figure-fudging", but Port Stephens
Labor candidate Kate Washington said he had been wilfully misleading. "There's
been no cut to the budget or fudging as suggested by Mr Baumann," she said.
"He's not interested in facts, he's interested in scaremongering."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRAIG BAUMANN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             August 27, 2017 Sunday

PML-N targeting Shaukat Khanum for political interests: Imran Khan

SECTION: Vol. 40 No. 237

LENGTH: 352  words


Expressing dismay over allegations of embezzlement in funds of Shaukat Khanum
Hospital, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) chairman Imran Khan said that hospitals
are spared and exempted from attack even during war like situation but his
political opponents do not miss a chance to make unnecessary criticism.

Addressing an award distribution ceremony held under Shaukat Khanum Hospital,
Khan said those levelling baseless allegations should rather call for
investigation and send him to prison if allegations proved true.

He said that Pakistan Mulsim League-Nawaz (PML-N) couldn't make a single cancer
hospital in its 30 year rule in Punjab.

'My prayers are with Kulsoom Nawaz, may Allah give her a speedy recovery,' Khan
said. He said that the wife of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif went overseas
for treatment but how many people can afford that. 'Political opponents
shouldn't target Shaukat Khanum for political interests,' he said.

Lauding efforts of various artists, Khan said the artists have contributed a lot
for establishing the hospital where 75 per cent of cancer patients get free
medical treatment.

'After Peshawar and Lahore, we are building a cancer hospital in Karachi,' he
said, adding that the hospital has served its patients in an exemplary way. 'No
hospital around the world provide such facilities free of cost,' he added.

He said criticism on Shaukat Khanum hospital is beyond his understanding since
there is no other cancer hospital in the country while urging his opponents to
restrain making unnecessary criticism for their political rivalry with him.

Khan accused Lahore Development Authority (LDA) for impeding development work
within the hospital premises by raising unwarranted objections on building maps,
adding, similar kind of hindrances are faced for acquiring electricity
connections.

Later, he distributed awards among corporate donors.

'They [Punjab government] created hurdles for a social welfare institute,' he
said. He said that if they had found any financial embezzlement in Shaukat
Khanum, they should act against it but they shouldn't use it for their political
interests.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                  May 11, 2016

Chinese political advisors consulted about medical reform

LENGTH: 182  words


China's political advisors on Tuesday put forward proposals on reforms of public
hospitals and medical insurance.

BEIJING -- China's political advisors on Tuesday put forward proposals on
reforms of public hospitals and medical insurance.

A statement issued after a meeting of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee, the country's top political
advisory body, said attendees agreed that despite progress, ordinary people
still find medical services scarce and expensive.

They suggested changes to public hospital management and a new system of payment
and benefits for medical staff to free hospitals from dependency on revenue from
drug sales, said the statement.

Community medicine should be another priority with cooperation between urban
hospitals and community clinics, according to the meeting, which was chaired by
Yu Zhengsheng, chairman of the CPPCC National Committee.

Vice Premier Liu Yandong attended the meeting and admitted that medical reform
is at a tough stage. She promised that the government would make basic medical
services a priority.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday

Chinese political advisors consulted about medical reform

LENGTH: 198  words


China's political advisors on Tuesday put forward proposals on reforms of public
hospitals and medical insurance.

[Photo
/Xinhua
]

BEIJING -- China's political advisors on Tuesday put forward proposals on
reforms of public hospitals and medical insurance.

A statement issued after a meeting of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee, the country's top political
advisory body, said attendees agreed that despite progress, ordinary people
still find medical services scarce and expensive.

They suggested changes to public hospital management and a new system of payment
and benefits for medical staff to free hospitals from dependency on revenue from
drug sales, said the statement.

Community medicine should be another priority with cooperation between urban
hospitals and community clinics, according to the meeting, which was chaired by
Yu Zhengsheng, chairman of the CPPCC National Committee.

Vice Premier Liu Yandong attended the meeting and admitted that medical reform
is at a tough stage. She promised that the government would make basic medical
services a priority.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/57/146293669300.jpg

f8bc126e4b23189cdc2e07.jpg

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                            February 23, 2015 Monday

BP Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital in dire straits

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 319  words


CHITWAN: BP Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital of Bharatpur, Chitwan, set up with
the plan of developing it as a model hospital for Asia, has had to cope with
heavy budget cuts, reportedly due to political reasons.

"The hospital's main source of income is the fund it receives from tax collected
from tobacco-related items. However, in recent years, the Health as well as
Finance ministries, under the influence of different parties, has slashed the
budget," said a staff at the hospital.

"If the head of the hospital is close to a certain party, people aligned to some
other parties lobby against the head and thus against the whole hospital," said
the staff, adding, "It's due to political tussle between the ministries that the
hospital has been facing a slump in its fund in the past four years."

According to Dr Chin Bahadur Pun, executive director of the hospital, the
hospital had received around Rs 334 million in fiscal year 2012/13 which went
down to 295 million rupees in the fiscal of 2013/14 and further slumped to 245
and 240 million rupees in the following fiscal years respectively.

"Though the hospital has an internal income of around 90 million rupees
annually, we have to spend around 260 million rupees on remunerations. On top of
that, a huge amount is spent on repair and maintenance of machines," he said,
adding they owe around 280 million rupees to the gratuity fund.

A number of defunct machines are being run in the hospital for want of money to
repair them. Hospital board committee member Ram Prasad Neupane, however, said
something could still be done to peg the fund.

"According to the act, 75 per cent of the amount collected from tobacco-related
items used to be donated to the hospital, but later the fund was reduced by an
amendment in the concerned regulation," he said, adding, "The fund could still
be hiked if political parties in the district came together and called for the
same."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

HCA DENIES PUSH TO PRIVATIZE SMH

BYLINE: JEREMY WALLACE H-T Political Writer

SECTION: A; ARCHIVES; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1039 words


HEALTH: Long candidate list for hospital board has fueled rampant speculation

Despite rampant rumors to the contrary, one of the state's largest for-profit
hospital chains declared it has no intention of trying to privatize the publicly
owned Sarasota Memorial Hospital.

An HCA West Florida spokeswoman said rumors were "absolutely untrue" that the
company is recruiting candidates to run for the Sarasota Memorial board in a
plan to take the hospital private.

"There is no effort on our part to privatize SMH," said JC Sadler, vice
president of marketing for HCA Florida West, which runs Sarasota's Doctors
Hospital and 15 other hospitals in the state.

Still, supporters of Sarasota Memorial are taking no chances, creating a
political action committee to oppose any privatization effort. Attorney Morgan
Bentley, who is helping lead "Save Our Commmunity Hospital" with former Sarasota
Republican Party chairman Eric Robinson, said the group hopes to have $150,000
to $200,000 by the primary elections on Aug. 26 for a potential campaign. Within
about one week, the group has raised almost $20,000.

Sarasota Memorial, founded in 1925, is one of more than 30 nonprofit community
hospitals in Florida. It is governed by an unpaid nine-member board, with five
seats up for election in August. All nine current board members are Republicans.

All five of the incumbents up for election face Republican primary challengers,
a rare level of competition for the typically low-key board.

Because there are no general election opponents, all voters in the county,
regardless of party, will be able to vote in the primary.

The rumor mill

The privatization rumors exploded last month, when an unusual surge of
candidates appeared during the final days of qualifying.

One of the challengers -- Republican Jack Brill -- told others that a political
consultant in Tampa who tried to recruit him as a client told him he was going
to create a political action committee to support candidates who would help HCA
change the hospital board to favor SMH privatization.

But the consultant, Anthony Pedicini, gave a different account of the
conversation with Brill. He said he reached out to Brill to help only him in his
campaign for the board, because he knows Brill from GOP political circles.
Pedicini said nothing was said about HCA, or about him working for the hospital
company in any way.

"I have nothing to do with any of the hospital board candidates," Pedicini said.

Brill, who is running against incumbent Robert Strasser, said he adamantly
opposes privatizing the hospital and has since signed a pledge never to support
the idea. Brill said he is running because he thought Strasser might retire
soon, and being on the hospital board would be a good way to get involved in the
community.

Other challengers -- Stefan Butz, who is battling incumbent Richard Merritt, and
Lydia Tower, who is taking on incumbent Gregory Carter -- do not seem ready to
push for privatization, either. Butz said he is against turning the hospital
private, and Tower has said she doesn't see why the hospital should change to a
for-profit model.

The only challenger who has publicly supported privatization is Michael Sutphin,
who was fired from his security job at Sarasota Memorial in 2012. Sutphin, who
is running against Joseph J. DeVirgilio, said the hospital needs to be
privatized because it has incurred too much debt through expansion projects over
the last 10 years.

Former North Port city commissioner David Garafalo -- who is running against
incumbent Darryl Henry -- did not return calls seeking comment.

A vote in opposition

The privatization rumors come just a year after the hospital board voted
emphatically against privatizing.

In 2012, Gov. Rick Scott pushed all public hospitals to justify remaining public
or come up with a list of possible buyers to go private. That prompted the
Sarasota hospital board to vote unanimously in 2013 to keep the hospital a
public nonprofit.

Scott is former CEO of what was then Columbia/HCA, and has long questioned the
value of government-run hospitals.

If the hospital board ever decides to privatize Sarasota Memorial, it will have
to put the issue to a countywide vote.

So far, HCA has not donated money to any of the current candidates running for
the hospital board. In fact, of the five candidates challenging the incumbents,
four have raised no money at all for their campaigns.

While HCA is adamant in saying it does not want to privatize Sarasota Memorial,
the company does have a financial interest in the hospital board elections.

Sadler said HCA West Florida would like to support candidates who are looking
out for the "needs of all of the taxpayers." Sadler did not specify which of the
candidates running it might support.

More directly, HCA and other for-profit hospitals have long been frustrated that
they pay property taxes, yet do not share in the more than $40 million Sarasota
Memorial raises annually through property taxes.

In 2011, three for-profit hospitals in Sarasota County, including HCA West
Florida facilities, sued the county for a share of the property tax money.

The for-profits lost that case last year, but are appealing the decision.

Current hospital board member Gregory Carter says he knows the for-profits want
a share of that money, but it is hard to justify giving taxpayer dollars to
for-profit hospitals that don't provide anywhere close to the services Sarasota
Memorial is taking on. Sarasota Memorial is the only hospital that provides
maternity care, pediatrics, neonatal intensive care and psychiatric care for
patients, as well as a significant amount of indigent care.

"The taxpayers don't really want to see their tax money sent to a corporate
headquarters in Tennessee," Carter said, referencing the headquarters of HCA
Florida West's parent company, HCA Inc.

HCA Florida West has 16 hospitals in Florida, including Doctors Hospital of
Sarasota, Blake Medical Center in Bradenton and Englewood Community Hospital.

Carter said he has heard the rumors of a new privatization bid, too. He said
when all of the candidates started filing, it ignited that talk.

"It was kind of a shock to see all of these people running," Carter said.

Staff Writer Barbara Peters Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: There are contests over five seats on the board at Sarasota Memorial
Hospital. An HCA representative says the company has not been recruiting
candidates to help take the hospital private.H-T ARCHVIE / 2013 SMH offers a
range of services for patients in this area. One is maternity care, including
neonatal intensive care in its new tower. H-T ARCHIVE / 2013

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

Staff at Thai hospital stormed by red shirts declare neutrality

LENGTH: 274 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 3 May

[Report by Online Reporters: "Hospital Staff Rally, Deny Taking Sides"]

More than 500 medical staff and students gathered in front of Chulalonglongkorn
Hospital on Monday morning, declaring their independence from politics.

"Medical personnel are afraid of the current political situation and some nurses
have cried. We're not the red-shirt protesters' enemy, but we don't know who to
depend on.

"We're like living in a divided country," Chulalongkorn Hospital deputy director
Somrat Charulaksananan said.

He said traffic congestion caused by the red-shirt rally was not the hospital's
main concern. The prolonged anti-government rally at Ratchaprasong made it
difficult for medical staff to do their job properly.

Protesters were shining lights into the hospital building, or making threatening
comments over loudspeakers on some nights.

"Chulalongkorn Hospital is under the Thai Red Cross Society, not the Public
Health Ministry, and we have to be careful that the Geneva Treaty is not be
violated," Dr Somrat said.

He called on all sides in the political conflict to stop pulling Chulalongkorn
Hospital into the political ring.

"We have never separated ourselves from the protesters. They can use our
toilets, sleep and walk in the hospital," he added.

Red-shirt leaders have accused the hospital of taking sides by evacuating its
patients to other hospitals after protesters raided the premises last week in a
futile search for soldiers, and demanding that Ratchadamri Road, its main
entranceway, be reopened to traffic.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 3 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            March 12, 2016 Saturday

Tehsil Headquarters Hospital Bara inaugurated

BYLINE: Jehanzeb Afridi

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 72

LENGTH: 315  words


A senior official of the political administration of Khyber Agency inaugurated
Tehsil Headquarters Hospital after the interval of seven years on Friday.

A formal inauguration ceremony held in Dogra in Bara tehsil organized where
political agent of Khyber Agency Khalid Mahmood announced the reopening of
Agency Headquarters Hospital in Dogra.

Speaking to the gathering of elders and doctors the political agent said
although the tribesmen were suffered badly owing to closure of Tehsil Agency
Hospital and other local hospitals in militancy hit areas. He added the people
belonging to the tribal would resume their life and business in Bara subdivision
after the government writ has been restored in Khyber Agency particularly in
Bara sub-division.

He administered polio drops to the children in the hospital to launch anti-polio
drive from 14th March to 16th in this month.

The official visited to the several departments in the hospital and directed the
concerned officials to fulfill the requirements inside the hospital.

"Nobody allows including doctors and other staff to negligence during their duty
time but the political administration will take stern action against them," he
warned. Also, political agent visited to the stadium in Bara, which announced by
the Chief of Army Staff General Raheel Sharif during the Governor Sports
Festival in Qayyum Sports Complex two months ago.

To a question, Khalid Mahmood stated CCTV-Cameras would be installed on various
entry and exit points soon in Bara to keep a close eye on the civilians.

Later, Khalid Mahmood visited to the Levies centre in Shahkas to meet the peace
body members of the several tribes belonging to the Bara Khyber Agency. The
peace bod members told the political agent that the peace body members had been
faced in many problems. They informed that the political agent should call the
meeting of the peace body during a week.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              May 6, 2005, Friday

ELECTION 2005: HOSPITAL DEBATE STILL RAGES

BYLINE: BY EMMA BRADY Dr Richard Taylor; The first of the ballot boxes arrives
for the count at Redditch Town Hall

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 552 words


With health being one of the key battlegrounds for this election, the
downgrading of Kidderminster Hospital is still fuelling fierce debate in Wyre
Forest.

In 2001, retired GP Dr Richard Taylor scored the most dramatic result in ousting
Labour junior Minister David Lock by an overwhelming majority of 17,630.

Buoyed by the exceptionally high turnout in the constituency - 68 per cent
compared with 59 per cent across Britain - the 70-year-old's single-issue
campaign showed what independent candidates could achieve.

Dr Taylor stood under the Health Concern banner in protest at proposed cuts to
services at Kidderminster District Hospital, which first emerged in 1997.

This sparked fierce opposition among the community, who saw Kidderminster as a
'sacrificial lamb' in the transformation of Worcestershire's health services.

It was the second time the once-safe Conservative seat had changed hands since
Labour's landslide victory in 1997.

While the Tories supported Dr Taylor by offering him one of their three seats on
the Commons Health Committee, it was the Liberal Democrats who backed him in
this year's election.'

Since 2001, both Conservative and Labour candidates have accused Dr Taylor of
being a Liberal Democrat in disguise.

But since he was elected on May 17, 2001, Dr Taylor had been taking sage advice
from former BBC journalist turned campaigner Martin Bell.

Dr Taylor said: 'When I was first elected Martin Bell said I should never tell
anyone what I was going to do'I never said I would only stand for one election,
what I did say I would reconsider my position nearer the time.'

Campaigners claimed the new hospital in Worcester, which was built under a
Private Finance Initiative, was running over-budget and saw the downgrading of
Kidderminster as a way of clawing back that shortfall.

The hospital's A&E was closed in September 2000 after the Worcestershire Acute
NHS Trust - which had struggled to recruit enough doctors - claimed it was
unsafe to maintain emergency services at Kidderminster.

Instead, an urgent treatment centre was opened, which is run mainly by nurses
with one doctor operating an out-of-hours service.

But Dr Taylor claims casualty departments at Worcester Royal Infirmary and the
Alexandra Hospital, in Redditch, are buckling under the increased pressure.

'As services are only starting to trickle back into use at Kidderminster and
hospital staff at Redditch and Worcester have realised they can't cope with the
extra demand, I still need to be here to make sure these issues are resolved,'
he said.

'I want to be around so I can keep an eye on these changes Conservative
candidate Mark Garnier, and Labour man Mark Bayliss have been fighting hard to
win back the seat.

Other candidates included former television chef Rustie Lee, who stood for UKIP,
and Fran Oborski, the Liberal candidate. Bert Priest represented the Monster
Raving Loony Party.

Speaking before the polls closed last night, Dr Taylor said: 'The main challenge
will probably be from the Tories as this has traditionally been one of their
seats.

'Although I did have one of their three places on the Commons Health Committee,
my views on health are more closely aligned to Labour's policies than theirs, so
I'm not surprised by this

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              71 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                              June 17, 2011 Friday

Poor patients facing problems at government hospitals due to pilferage of
medicines

BYLINE:  RECORDER REPORT

SECTION: Vol. XLVII No. 167

LENGTH: 711  words


Due to the theft of medicines at government hospitals poor patients are
suffering badly as they have to either purchase medicines from private medical
stores or discontinue their treatment. The government spends huge amount on
purchase of medicines every year, but medicines are actually not delivered to
the patients, while bulk is sold by the corrupt officials to the private medical
stores.

Medical superintendents of government hospitals deny the allegation of the theft
of medicines, however, drug inspectors say the theft of medicines in state-run
hospitals is a roaring business and large quantities of such stolen drugs have
been recovered during raids on private medical stores.

Drug Inspector Karachi, Idrees Shaikh told Business Recorder that the theft of
medicines from our government hospitals could not be denied. He said there were
several cases in which drug inspectors had recovered stolen medicines from the
private medical stores. He said drug inspectors recover stolen medicine from
private medical stores and lodge cases against the accused. He informed that the
courts were dealing with many cases of medicine theft.

According to the sources, medicines were being stolen from Civil Hospital
Karachi (CHK), Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH), National Institute of
Cardiovascular Diseases (NICVD), Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center (JPMC),
National Institute of Child Health (NICH), Qatar Hospital Orangi and other big
and small hospitals. They said patients were supplied only cheap medicines;
however, they were asked to buy costly injections, capsules and tablets from the
private stores. They said the administrations of these hospitals were fully
aware about the issue but they did not pay any heed to the problem due to their
own vested interests.

They said mostly paramedics including dispensers; technicians and storekeepers
are involved in the theft of medicines. However, in some cases doctors were also
found involved in this crime, they added. It was also learnt that the majority
of paramedical staff, especially dispensers, run their own private medical
stores and sell the stolen drugs on discount.

Sources said mostly those paramedics were involved in this crime who they have
support of various political parties. They said paramedic and medical wings of
various political parties working in the government hospitals.

They said corrupt staff shows entry of provision of medicines to patients in the
hospital register; however, actually they were not supplied these medicines, or
supplied only some of them. They said such paramedics often ask patients to buy
the prescribed drugs from private medical stores, as the medicines were not
available at the hospital.

They said many NGOs and philanthropists donate life-saving medicines in bulk to
the emergency wards of the government but such drugs are also sold in open
market by the corrupt hospital staff. The patients in the surgical ward of the
Civil Hospital Karachi, says sometime patients have to buy syringes and cannula
for themselves. They alleged that medicines were provided to some patients who
have political affiliation or they have any relations with some doctors, nurses
or paramedics.

Dr Qaiser Sajjad, Ex Secretary General of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA)
Karachi said usually low paid staff in the government hospitals is involved in
the drug theft. When this scribe asked him about the involvement of doctors in
medicine thefts, he agreed and said that PMA has always discouraged such type
malpractices from doctor's ends.

He said these people sell the stolen drugs to private medical stores on
throwaway prices, as a result poor patients suffer badly. Qaiser suggested the
medicines supplied to the government hospitals must have different colours,
packaging, and labels, so that they could not be sold at the private medical
stores. He said millions of poor people could not afford to buy medicines, and
the theft of drugs from the government hospitals directly affects them.

He said the theft of medicines is an immoral act and also a severe crime against
the ailing humanity, therefore the government should make serious efforts to
check this malpractice. This scribe tried to contact Secretary Health Sindh,
Syed Hashim Raza for his comments but he was not available.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Nationalist

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday

New threat to maternity services could have huge impact on hospital South Tipp
suffering from political interference' claim

LENGTH: 894  words


Maternity and acute services at South Tipperary General Hospital face an
almighty battle for survival as the campaign to save the hospital is to be
re-activated after the emergence of a major threat to the hospital.

The public has been placed on red alert as the hospital faces its biggest ever
threat to its status. Fears are mounting that Clonmel's maternity services will
be selected as the one to close out of the four maternity services in the south
east which will have a huge knock on effect for paediatric services, twenty four
hour anaesthetic services, emergency department and in-patient general surgical
services.

The new threat to the maternity services has arisen after Health Minister James
Reilly briefed backbench TDs on the Higgins report on restructuring of hospital
groups in the country and informed them that one of the four maternity units in
the south east would close. There is a proposal that both Clonmel and Waterford
will be downgraded and linked to Cork while the hospitals in the constituencies
of Minister Phil Hogan in Kilkenny and Brendan Howlin in Wexford are to be
grouped with the prestigious teaching hospitals in Dublin.

The Save Our Acute Hospital Services action group office in Clonmel is to
re-open this week and arrangements are being made for the members of the
hospital action group to meet Minister Reilly.

Said action group Chairman Seamus Healy TD - "Closure of our hospital will
simply not be allowed happen. The campaign which culminated in 20,0000 people
taking to the streets in Clonmel three years ago will be re-activated. The
public will have to stand up to this threat, people power can stop this. South
Tipperary has a commitment from the current Health Minister, the Taoiseach and
Tanaiste and their two parties that acute services in South Tipperary will be
retained. The people of South Tipperary will not stand for the loss of the
maternity services or the downgrading of the hospital,"

Independent TD Mattie McGrath has slammed the move as naked political
interference" from Ministers Hogan and Howlin.

"This is a political decision. We are losing out because Minister Hogan is
looking after Kilkenny and Minister Howlin looking after Wexford. This decision
has nothing to do with the delivery of a better health service, it's a political
game and we don't have a government TD to stand up to them and protect South
Tipperary," said Deputy McGrath.

The cabinet met on Tuesday to discuss the Higgins report but according to Fine
Gael Deputy Tom Hayes no decision would be taken on the restructuring of the
hospital groups because there was no medical consensus. He said he would oppose
any attempt by Minister Reilly to close the maternity services in Clonmel.

On Monday might a meeting of the hospital action committee was held in Clonmel
which was attended by hospital consultant Peter Murchan and former consultants
Paud O'Regan and Alan Moore. It was also attended by Mayor of Clonmel Billy
Shoer, elected representatives from throughout South Tipperary, hospital patient
groups and hospital staff and retired staff.

Chairman Seamus Healy said  the committee would meet head on any attempt to
close maternity services in Clonmel and would fight against the break up of the
existing south east hospital structure which South Tipperary wanted to remain
part of .

He said that Deputy Hayes had undertaken to arrange a meeting with Minister
Reilly with the three South Tipp TDs as well as a meeting with the hospital
action group.

"Losing your maternity services would amount to the nuclear situation because it
would have such a devastating effect on other vital services. If maternity goes
then you face asset stripping of a major scale and Clonmel could very soon
become a day hospital with a minor injury unit," warned Deputy Healy.

Deputy Tom Hayes said he was very concerned about the maternity services which
he said could be one out of the four to go if the south east hospital structure
stays as it is.

"If the south east structure  as it is stays together one of the four maternity
units will not survive. I have no intention of allowing Minister Reilly close
down maternity in Clonmel and it will have to be fought," he said.

Deputy Mattie McGrath said that capital funding for both hospitals in Kilkenny
and Wexford had been accelerated by Minister Reilly for Minsiters Hogan and
Howlin. That combined with Minister Reillys' involvement in the prioritisation
of primary health care centres established a pattern of political interference
in the health system and it now appeared as if the hospital system was going to
be restructured to accommodate the political interests of some ministers.

"Our maternity is under threat because we are the weakest link. We do not  have
anybody in government strong enough to protect our interests," said Deputy
McGrath.

He said he was concerned that the delivery of a better health service was not
the priority anymore as significant changes were being made because the
political picture had changed so much.

"Not that long ago Waterford was to be a centre of excellence with South
Tipperary, Kilkenny and Wexford feeding into that. Now it looks like Waterford
is going to be downgraded along with South Tipperary, and Kilkenny and Wexford
are upgraded. It's purely political. This is the biggest threat our maternity
services and the hospital has ever faced," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INAC


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 19, 2005

Town hospital

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 511 words


Since the review of Bristol hospitals began three years ago, Keynsham's Labour
councillors have taken the lead in the campaign to secure the future of Keynsham
Hospital.  Our concern has been to ensure that the hospital and its services are
retained for the benefit of the local community.

I note that the Conservative candidate for Wansdyke is now using this issue for
his own political purposes.  If he had spoken to his colleagues he would have
discovered that the campaign to save Keynsham Hospital has the support of all
political parties.  It is, however, the Labour councillors who first raised
awareness of this issue and who have been fighting to ensure that the views of
Keynsham people are considered in the ongoing hospital reviews.

CLLR ADRIAN INKER Lab, Keynsham South Holmoak Road, Keynsham ONE in four people
will experience a mental illness in their lifetime, and the Government's plans
to reform mental health law could lead to many more people being treated against
their will.

Now an all-party parliamentary committee scrutinising the Draft Mental Health
Bill has said that these proposals are "fundamentally flawed". It has endorsed
the view of Maca, and the nearly 70 other organisations in the Mental Health
Alliance, that the Draft Bill is unethical and unworkable.

Anyone who cares about better mental health law should join us in asking all
election candidates whether they will support the draft Mental Health Bill as it
stands.

MARTIN BALL Maca High Holborn, London TWENTY million voters in the UK are over
the age of 50. We are more likely to vote than younger age groups.

We are as diverse as any other age group. We are looking to the next government
to ensure that everyone has an adequate income to lead a fulfilling life, to end
age discrimination and to build effective public services.

I hope that your party is listening to older people and has the policies to
prove it.

To do otherwise may cost you at the ballot box.

MARGARET HOTSON Camden Crescent, Bath THE writer of the letter you recently
published under the heading "Speed cameras are not for safety" successfully shot
himself in the foot by stating, correctly, that there had been no accidents on
the Batheaston bypass. If this is not safety, what is?  Admittedly there are
other local roads, such as Sally in the Wood which could be considered more
appropriate for a speed limit but the fact remains that, according to a more
talented mathematical person than I am, someone driving the length of the
Batheaston bypass at 70mph, rather than the legal limit of 50mph, would save
himself just 90 seconds. To what purpose?  MD RAHILLY Upper Westwood Bradford on
Avon SPEED is measurable and easy to enforce and make money from. In my opinion,
they should be looking at the distance people leave when driving. In my
experience on the road accidents occur more when people don't leave a good
distance between cars. With a safe distance the speed is a more minor issue.

GREG SMITH Mead End, Biggleswade

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005 1904BATHCHE1townho

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


                              74 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 1, 1999, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CHINESE FORCE DISSIDENT BACK IN MENTAL HOSPITAL;
WANG WANXING SAID HE MIGHT SPEAK OUT PUBLICLY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


Police have forced a veteran Chinese dissident to return to a psychiatric
hospital after he said he might publicly discuss his seven years confined to the
institution, a human rights group reported Tuesday.

According to accounts from his wife and a prominent exiled dissident, Wang
Wanxing, 50, had appeared stable and lucid in the three months since his
conditional release from the police-run Ankang Hospital, New York-based Human
Rights in China said.

But the group said eight police officers took Wang from his home in Beijing on
Nov. 23 and returned him to Ankang, four days after he told the hospital
director he might hold a news conference to discuss the conditions he endured
during his confinement.

His forcible return underscored the extremes the Communist government is
resorting to in its effort to silence dissent. With unemployment in cities high,
rural incomes stagnant and corruption pervasive, the Communist Party fears that
any political challenges could spiral beyond its control.

Police pressured Wang's wife to admit that he is mentally unstable, Human Rights
in China said.

Wang first ran afoul of the political system in the mid-1970s and spent 17
months in a labor camp for speaking out against China's Communist leaders.

Wang was sent to Ankang in 1992 after he tried to unfurl a banner in Beijing's
Tiananmen Square commemorating victims of the military assault on democracy
demonstrators in 1989.

Hospital officials told his wife that Wang was suffering from "political
monomania," Human Rights in China said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshot - Wang (Wanzing)  - Longtime protester

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              75 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 15, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Hospital Blast In Pakistan; Political Feud Is Heating Up

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 7;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, April 14


A bomb exploded in Pakistan's only cancer hospital today, killing at least 6
people, wounding more than 30 and adding a grim twist to a personal and
political feud that many Pakistanis say could have a profound impact on the
country's future.

The bomb detonated in the city of Lahore at the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Center, opened 16 months ago and dedicated to the memory of the mother of
Pakistan's former cricket captain, Imran Khan. Mr. Khan, 43, has said in recent
days that he is on the verge of starting a political movement to topple Prime
Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was a fellow student with Mr. Khan at Oxford
University 20 years ago.

The blast occurred shortly after noon today, a normal working day in Pakistan,
when about 150 patients and relatives were gathered at the sprawling hospital
complex. A correspondent for the BBC who reached the scene said the explosion
left dead and wounded lying in pools of blood, with one outer wall of the
hospital blown away. Hospital officials said that the dead included 2 children
who were patients and that 10 of the wounded were in critical condition.

The incident came amid intensifying political violence in Pakistan. Mr. Khan,
who gained widespread popularity among Pakistan's 130 million people when his
team won cricket's world championship for the first time in 1992, has been
sharply critical of the country's feuding political class, which he has
described as "a culture of corruption and injustice."

Many of his criticisms have been aimed particularly at Prime Minister Bhutto,
who Mr. Khan has accused of leading a Government obsessed with political
vendettas and self-enrichment. Ms. Bhutto has responded by targeting Mr. Khan
with income tax investigations, a ban on fund-raising events for the cancer
hospital in schools and other Government-run institutions, and a blackout on
reports about the hospital on the state-run broadcasting network.

After the explosion today, the 42-year-old Ms. Bhutto made her first visit to
the hospital, calling the blast "a deplorable attack" and hinting that it might
have been the work of loyalists of Pakistan's main opposition leader, Nawaz
Sharif. Mr. Sharif, who has tried and failed to recruit Mr. Khan as an ally,
denied the allegation.

Mr. Khan, who reached the hospital from his home in Lahore shortly after the
attack, declined to say who he thought might have set the bomb. But he said the
blast would not deter him from his political plans. "I want to tell those who
want to scare me that neither will I be scared, nor will I turn back," he said.
"I will move forward with greater determination."

Mr. Khan has stirred controversy in Pakistan for what his critics call
hypocrisy. He has described the country's political elite as "brown Sahibs" --
meaning that their attitudes and life styles, in a Muslim country, mimicked
those of the British rulers of colonial India. Opponents responded that Mr.
Khan, during his cricket career, was one of the most photographed "playboys" of
London's West End.

Last summer, Mr. Khan stunned many Pakistanis by marrying Jemima Goldsmith, now
22, who is the daughter of James Goldsmith, an Anglo-French business tycoon.
After Muslim ceremonies in Paris and a civil wedding in London, Mrs. Khan, who
adopted the Muslim name Haiqa and converted to Islam, made a home with Mr. Khan
in Lahore.

But criticism of Mr. Khan seems to have made little impact. The $22 million
needed to build the cancer hospital was raised in part on a tour in which Mr.
Khan walked through Pakistan's slums and villages, accepting donations of a few
rupees.

When Mr. Khan showed a visitor around the hospital two weeks ago, patients and
relatives, some of whom had traveled hundreds of miles to the hospital, greeted
him with cries of "Long Live the Great Khan!" A 28-year-old woman named Farzana,
mother of a five-year-old boy undergoing chemotherapy for lymphoma, said she was
illiterate and had never voted, but would if Mr. Khan were a candidate. "He
might be our next Prime Minister," she said. "We all adore him."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows the location of Lahore, Pakistan.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                            December 21, 2015 Monday

Doctors' forum asks politicians to stop interfering in hospitals

SECTION: No. 296

LENGTH: 345  words


The Insaf Doctors Forum (IDF) has demanded leaders of all the political parties
to stop interference in administrative matters of the public sector hospitals.
The IDF is an association of the public sector doctors affiliated with the
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI).

Talking to reporters on Sunday, IDF general secretary Dr Mudir Khan said all the
institutions should function within limits and jurisdictions determined by the
law. He complained that some elected members of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly,
especially the recently elected members of local government, were constantly
interfering in routine administrative affairs of the hospitals.

Dr Mudir said that doctors, paramedics and nursing staff of the three tertiary
care hospitals had been complaining about unnecessary interference and undue
favour by some MPAs, nazims and councillors.

Besides them, he said majority of the non-elected political workers were also
visiting the hospitals using references of their higher officials and demanding
protocol and special attention. The IDF leader said some of the people come to
the hospital with their armed men with an aim of showing power and spreading
terror among the doctors and other supporting staff of the hospitals.

We also received complaints about threats and abusive language by such elements
against the doctors and other supporting staff during such visits. Most of these
complaints have been received from the Hayatabad Medical Complex and Khyber
Teaching Hospital, Dr Mudir said.

He said the hospitals had been built for providing health services to patients
in a professional and sympathetic manner, care based on dignity and equality. He
said the care and treatment given to patients is based on the critical nature of
the disease and not on their financial and social status.

The doctor said that majority of the recently-elected local government members
belonging to all political parties were unaware of their responsibilities and
jurisdictions and usually indulge in baseless arguments with doctors and
threaten them with suspension from services.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 27, 2009 Monday

Protests over patient death disrupt work of Maldives hospital

LENGTH: 382 words


Excerpt from report by Maldives pro-government newspaper Miadhu News website on
26 April

ADK Hospital [in Male] is facing severe difficulties due to recent protests
staged in front of the hospital, according to chairman of ADK Hospital Ahmed
Nashid. Nashid said that the protests have caused difficulties for the public
and foreigners seeking medical care from the hospital. He asserted that the
regulations on freedom of assembly and holding demonstrations do not permit such
activities in front of such of such institutions such as hospitals. He also
noted that pertinent authorities have failed in taking action against those who
violate the country's laws and regulations.

Briefing the media, ADK chairman Nashid, who is also MP for Dhaal Atoll and
deputy leader of Jumhoory Party (JP), said due the protests many patients
admitted at the hospital are psychologically affected. Many who came for
consultations were forced to turn back, he said.

MP Nashid said ADK Hospital is a favourite and a trusted hospital by foreigners.
He noted with dismay that some Italians and Germans who came to seek medical
care went back due to what they saw. He said as such protests are not staged in
front of hospital in other parts of the world, such actions will not only affect
the hospital but will also affect the country's image.

JP deputy leader Nashid said he was aware that some political parties do support
his political view and thinking. He said regardless of what other may think, he
would always support what was best for the people and the country.

Protests broke out at ADK Hospital on [Thursday] 23 April when 37-year-old
pre-school teacher Aisthah Shaheen Mohamed and her baby died during a caesarean
section on Tuesday. More than 50 people protested for the closure of ADK
Hospital, alleging that the mother Shaheen and her baby died due to negligence.

Carrying placards, protesters demand change the management of the hospital. They
also called for the resignation of chairman Nashid and for the government to
terminate the hospital's contract. [passage omitted] Protests also continued on
24 April.

However, Shaheen's husband has told the media that the protests had nothing to
do with the family and that it is not the wish of the family.

Source: Miadhu News website, Male, in English 26 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            October 4, 1993, Monday

WORLD IN BRIEF Muslims battle Muslims in Bosnia

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Section A; Page 12

LENGTH: 774 words


Muslim-led government troops clashed with Muslim separatists Sunday in
northwestern Bosnia, and Bosnian Croats and Muslims signed a new cease- fire for
embattled Mostar that was quickly reported broken.

A man was killed and two people were wounded in Velika Kladusa, in the Bihac
region, when supporters of Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic stormed the local
radio station, said Col. Thierry Boutillier, commander of a French battalion of
U.N. peacekeepers.

He said police loyal to Bihac rebel leader Fikret Abdic restored order, and the
station remained in the hands of Abdic backers.

Lawmakers in Bihac, a Muslim pocket in northwestern Bosnia, declared regional
autonomy last Monday. Abdic has good relations with neighboring Croats and Serbs
and is credited with sparing the enclave from Bosnia's war.

-IRMA NOT EXPECTED TO WALK: Irma Hadzimuratovic, the 5-year-old Bosnian girl
evacuated to Britain after international publicity about her plight, is not
expected to walk again, a hospital spokeswoman said. Irma, who sustained serious
shrapnel wounds to her spine and abdomen, also will probably remain on a
ventilator, which makes it possible for her to breathe, "for the foreseeable
future," said a spokeswoman for London's Great Ormond Street Hospital for Sick
Children, where Irma is staying. She has made a "remarkable" recovery from the
meningitis she contracted in Sarajevo, but she remains in an intensive care
unit, the spokeswoman said Saturday, speaking on condition of anonymity.

-IRISH PARTY LEADER SEES CHANCE FOR PEACE: The leader of the political party
that supports the Irish Republican Army said that talks under way could mean
peace in Northern Ireland for the first time since fighting broke out there over
British rule, a London newspaper reported. "This is one of the best
opportunities for peace since what are now called 'the troubles' began in 1968,"
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams was quoted as saying. "The onus is on the British
government not to be blinkered and to try to move forward on this," the
Independent quoted him as saying.

-WAVE INJURES SHIP PASSENGERS: Fifty passengers aboard the Queen Elizabeth II
were injured when a 30-foot wave like "a big hill" sent the ship into a deep
roll off the southern coast of Britain. The wave struck the luxury liner Friday
afternoon in heavy seas off Cornwall as it neared the end of a five-day cruise
from New York, said the owner, Cunard Steam- Ship Co. PLC.

-DINOSAUR EGGS BY THE THOUSAND: Thousands of 100-million-year-old fossilized
dinosaur eggs have been found in central China, an official report said.
Residents of Nanyang prefecture, in Henan province, began finding small numbers
of the eggs in 1974, but last December a farmer digging an irrigation ditch
discovered a large group, the Xinhua News Agency reported. Xinhua gave no
further details, including what type of dinosaur scientists believe laid the
eggs. Since then, archaeologists have found seven sites containing several
thousand dinosaur eggs, ranging in size from 1.6 inches to 20 inches. Xinhua
said experts believe there are tens of thousands of the fossils.

-SECURITY TIGHTENED FOR VOTE: The Egyptian government canceled police leaves and
tightened security in Muslim fundamentalist hot spots in preparation for a
nationwide referendum on a third term for President Hosni Mubarak. Violent
clashes between police and militants fighting to unseat Mubarak's government,
meanwhile, left one police officer dead and seven militants wounded, officials
said. Mubarak, 65, was virtually certain to win another six-year term in today's
yes-or-no vote.

-PERONISTS LEAD: Argentina's Peronist Party appeared to win key congressional
elections, boosting President Carlos Menem's drive to run for a second term. The
Peronists will gain nine seats in the Chamber of Deputies and defeat the
opposition Civic Radical Union by 13 percentage points nationwide, Menem
predicted at a news conference. Early official returns, based on 38.8 percent of
precincts, gave the Peronists 39.5 percent of the vote compared to 32.4 percent
for the Radicals. MODIN, a right-wing nationalist party, was third with 4.5
percent. Voters went to the polls to elect half of the 257-seat Chamber of
Deputies, nearly 400 members of provincial legislatures and more than 3,000
other local officials. Polls closed at 6 p.m. (5 p.m. EDT). The campaign focused
on Menem's efforts to reform the 140-year-old constitution to allow him to run
for re-election in 1995. The charter limits presidents to one six- year term,
but can be amended by a two-thirds vote in both houses of congr ess.

-From our news services

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932790118

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              79 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday
                           All-round Country Edition

HOSPITAL PASS

BYLINE: PAUL KELLY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1244  words


JOHN HOWARD'S 11-YEAR PURSUIT OF NATIONALISM HAS LEFT THE FEDERAL COALITION
CLEANING UP STATE PROBLEMS, WRITES EDITOR-AT-LARGE PAUL KELLY


THE abject failure of state Labor governments -- over the hospital system in NSW
and due process for the pulp mill in Tasmania -- deepens the political burden on
John Howard, the aspirational nationalist.

This week federal Health Minister Tony Abbott was forced to respond to the NSW
crisis with a strangely inadequate plan to make local hospital boards a
condition of future funding while Environment Minister Malcolm Turnbull tried to
salvage proper process by imposing on the pulp mill a set of world-best
environmental conditions.

The impact on election eve is undisguised. Public hospital policy and the
federal Government's environmental credentials are in the spotlight courtesy of
inept state governments. Howard wants to lock ALP leader Kevin Rudd into
political responsibility for state Labor blunders, but he struggles to get this
traction.

While buck-passing in the federation is an old story, the political consequences
are new: the reality of 2007 politics is the growing conviction that the buck
stops with the federal government.

Howard knows this. Witness his record as the most nationalistic prime minister
in the history of non-Labor politics. His governance ideology is entrenched:
that the two great political forces today are nationalism and localism; that the
''old, rigid state monopoly models'' for education, health, employment and
welfare services are becoming obsolete; that the people look to the federal
government to solve their problems; and that Canberra needs to fashion more
partnerships at the local level.

It sounds good. But these are radical ideas that are dangerous in
implementation. Their defect is that the states, for better or worse, must
remain the agencies for core service delivery and unless the Howard Coalition,
via policy and financial leadership, can improve state services, then it will
pay a severe political price. For Howard, this point is reached.

Abbott's proposal for local hospital boards is a classic in Howard's localism
philosophy. But how adequate is it? Opposition health spokeswoman Nicola Roxon
argued it was to conceal the Government's failure to provide proper funding and
reform of the hospital system during a decade.

Figures from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare show that, under
Howard, federal funding of public hospitals has fallen from 45 per cent to 41
per cent during the past decade (partly offset by the private health insurance
rebate that helps to fund private hospitals). Rudd has a single political
message on hospitals: he knows the buck stops with the federal government and he
will accept such political responsibility. It is true that Rudd's extra funds
for the system are only $500 million a year for four years. It is true his
initial position is to work with the states to achieve reforms. But make no
mistake: Rudd is ready to assume full financial responsibility for the entire
hospital system if co-operative federalism does not work. Hospital policy is an
area of distinct difference between Howard and Rudd.

Labor pledges that within the first 100 days of any election victory a national
health and hospital reform commission will be established to draft its agenda.

Health is a template for the political and policy lessons that flow from
Australia's federal system. There are three conclusions.

First, the states (with the exception of Victoria) are failing as agents of
reform and effective service delivery, thereby putting a new onus on the federal
government.

Second, neither Howard nor Rudd will return meaningful tax powers to the states,
so any notion of a state revival via new financial powers is a daydream.

Third, one of the federal government's reform tasks, therefore, is to use its
financial and policy leadership to secure new productivity-boosting agreements
with the states across a range of policy areas.

Frankly, there is no alternative.

Rudd plays into this situation. He has outmanoeuvred Howard with his pledge to
reform federalism and inject new life into the Council of Australian Governments
process that Howard has run in recent years with few hard results. Rudd's stress
on federalism has won him kudos with business where the Business Council of
Australia and other lobbies see federalism as the priority instrument for
economic improvements.

Witness this week's infrastructure reform road map for the BCA written by former
federal government adviser Rod Sims that calls for a deeper commitment to boost
Australia's infrastructure competitiveness.

''Reform is not possible unless we have a much more effective working
relationship between the commonwealth and state governments,'' Sims says.
''Rivers, rail lines and roads and electricity networks all cross state
boundaries, yet historically both policy and service delivery have been purely
state-based. We are moving beyond this but we have a long way to go.

''Success will only come if the commonwealth and the states work together.''

Water, energy and transport have a new saliency in politics. Howard has
responded in a variety of ways: through his $10 billion Murray-Darling scheme, a
proposed national emissions trading regime, hefty increases in transport and
road funding, and a series of initiatives in COAG.

A longer-range judgment, however, is that in 11 years Howard has squandered too
many opportunities to establish a reform agenda based on new federal-state
arrangements.

Indeed, for the first part of his prime ministership, Howard displayed scant
interest in the idea.

Reviewing the more recent period, Sims says: ''COAG meets infrequently, there is
little current focus on timelines for concrete action and there is insufficient
emphasis on outcomes. With the end of competition policy payments to the states,
the commonwealth has lost a practical mechanism to drive reform.''

Consider the uncompleted agenda. Australia lacks an effective national
electricity market. Confusion remains in NSW over the source of the new energy
generation and investment needed out to 2030.

Until recently, the states made no new supply-side investment in urban water.
Urban water remains a government monopoly impeded by the absence of market
pricing and competition. The Murray-Darling scheme remains flawed without
Victoria's participation.

The economic costs of urban congestion are set to double by 2020. Freight
bottlenecks are caused by inadequate port capacity, poor roads, under-investment
in rail and lack of national transport markets.

The Howard Government is proficient at new spending on roads or the regions. But
progress overall in COAG is too slow and without enough commitment to policy
principles: market pricing, effective competition, privatisation of
infrastructure. This will come only from a federal government prepared to use
its financial powers to persuade or compel state reforms.

Nobody has a clue whether Rudd would do better. But he is focused on the issue.
This week he slammed Howard for holding only 14 meetings of COAG in 11 years.
Complaining that this revealed a lack of ''commitment and leadership'', Rudd
affirmed his pledge to a national reform agenda via COAG as part of his pledge
to ''fixing our federation''.

That will happen only if Rudd confronts and defeats that vast array of special
Labor interests, union privileges and regulatory inertia that defines so many
state governments.

More election reports -- Pages 24-28

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                           January 27, 2016 Wednesday

Removal of political parties offices echoes in NA body

BYLINE: IKRAM JUNAIDI

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 27

LENGTH: 439  words


Action taken by the Capital Development Authority (CDA) against offices of
political parties set up in residential areas on Tuesday echoed in the National
Assembly standing committee on cabinet secretariat.

The chairman of the committee, Asad Umar of the PTI, blamed the civic agency for
the closure of the offices. However, Minister for Capital Administration and
Development Division (CADD) Tariq Fazal Chaudhry shifted the responsibility to
the Supreme Court.

Last week, the CDA decided to close the offices of political parties in
residential areas. The ruling PML-N voluntarily shifted its central secretariat
from Sector F-8 while the PPP stopped non-conforming use of Zardari House in
Sector F-8.

During the meeting of the standing committee, Syed Ali Raza Abidi said if the
CDA was taking action against commercial activities in residential houses, why
the office of Safe Blood Transfusion Service Project (SBTSP) still functioned in
a house.

Asad Umar said the CDA had even declared political parties as commercial
entities and directed them to shift their offices from houses.

But the state minister, who controls the CDA, said the civic agency had nothing
to do with it.

The fact is during the hearing of a case, the Supreme Court ordered the CDA to
close even offices of political parties established in residential houses and
the order is being implemented, he said.

Dr Amir Maqbool, a representative of SBTSP, said the project was launched
through the German funding and the house rent was also being paid timely.
However, Asad Umar rejected the excuse.

Additional Secretary CADD Qaiser Majeed Malik assured the members that the
office of SBTSP would also be shifted from the residential area.

New hospitals

Members of the committee stressed the establishment of new hospitals in the city
but the state minister said though there was a need for new hospitals, the
existing facilities should be upgraded.

We have finally acquired the land of Argentina Park for the extension of
Polyclinic.

Moreover, another plot is available in Sector G-13 and a hospital will be
constructed there, he said.

Asad Umar said: Steps should be taken to provide health facilities to the
citizens from Basic Health Units to tertiary care centres.

Mohammad Rehan Hashmi of the MQM said the condition of Pims can be determined by
a simple example that a doctor of hospital, Dr Shahid Sohail, was shot on the
hospital premises but he was shifted to another hospital due to the lack of
facilities.

Proper facilities should be provided in the hospital, he said. Malik Ibrar Ahmed
of the PML-N said because of bureaucratic hurdles, the issues could not be
resolved.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                           January 26, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Home-care crisis had a familiar ring to it

BYLINE: Terry Cooke, The Hamilton Spectator

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 756 words


"It's like déjà vu all over again."

-- Yogi Berra

In an act of political contrition, Health Minister George Smitherman pronounced
this week that he "feels our pain." So much so that he's come to the rescue of
beleaguered Liberal MPPs Ted McMeekin and "sleepless" Sophia Aggelonitis by
suspending the Hamilton home-care bidding fiasco.

If the executives and volunteer board of the local Community Care Access Centre
have any remaining self-respect after their authority was neutered by the
minister, they will resign immediately because they've been played as political
patsies in this entire mess.

What happened this week was as predictable as it was eerily reminiscent for me.
I still bear the scars from my experience as a volunteer member of the Hamilton
Health Sciences Corporation board of directors that was fired en masse in 2000
by a previous health minister for failing to play nicely with the province on
the proposed closure of Henderson hospital.

The Harris Conservatives were bound and determined to get better control of
hospital expenditures in Hamilton. They decided that the best way to do so was
to close two of the existing four acute-care hospitals in the heart of the city
and build a single larger new hospital on the south Mountain.

In theory the plan made perfect sense, but the government wanted the political
upside of building the new hospital without taking responsibility for the
headaches involved in forcing the closures. So the health minister privately
directed the HHSC board to "show leadership by getting out in front" of the
issue.

Despite my caution to the hospital board, a group comprised mostly of committed
and well-intentioned community volunteers, they failed to recognize the
political trap being set by the health minister. The HHSC board proceeded to
recommend the hospital closures without any public assurance from the province
that it was onside. The affected patients, doctors, unions and local politicians
erupted in immediate volcanic intensity.

Then, in an act of breathtaking cynicism, the government announced with great
fanfare that it was determined to stop the threatened hospital closures and
affectively assigned blame for the political problem by removing the hospital
board and replacing us with a provincially appointed supervisor. Starting to
sound familiar?

In the recent Hamilton home-care controversy, the McGuinty government clearly
understood and supported the competitive bidding process. Given the volatility
of the situation, Smitherman almost certainly would have been briefed in advance
about the disqualifications of the Victorian Order of Nurses and St. Joseph's
Health Care. And yet he allowed the CCAC to proceed right over a political cliff
with public notification to the disqualified agencies.

The Henderson Hospital and home-care debacles have been about more than just
political duplicity. The underlying cause of the conflict is an inadequate
health-care governance model and a shortage of cash. First a Conservative and
now a Liberal government has attempted to gain control of exploding health-care
costs by delegating responsibility for both spending decisions and awarding
local service contracts to quasi-independent local bodies, initially to hospital
and non-profit agency boards and now to something called the Local Health
Integration Network (LHIN).

The flaw in this governance structure is self-evident. There are inevitably
winners and losers when it comes to making the hard decisions around scarce
resources and everybody in the system knows that ultimately if the political
heat gets turned up the health minister will intervene and overrule the local
decision-making authority.

So unfortunately, while Smitherman may have averted a short-term political
crisis for McMeekin and Aggelonitis, he hasn't provided any certainty around the
future of home-care service in Hamilton. Smitherman has also failed to fix the
fundamental governance problems that will surely continue to plague the system.

As a result, the minister has painted himself into a corner. He has only two
real remaining options. He can abolish the LHIN and the CCAC and have the
provincial government directly take direct control of local health-care
delivery. Or he must create a truly independent and democratically accountable
regional health authority that takes responsibility for making the hard
decisions about what's best for local patients, as opposed to just whatever
provides pain relief to provincial politicians.

Terry Cooke is a former Hamilton-Wentworth regional chair.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Metroland Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

Minister directs removal of offices of political parties from govt hospitals

SECTION: Vol. XXXVIII No. 255

LENGTH: 175  words


Sindh Minister for Health Jam Mehtab Hussain Dahar has directed administration
of all government hospitals to remove offices of all political parties and no
pressure would be tolerate in this regard.

This he said while presiding over a meeting here at his office on Monday, said a
statement.

He said that government hospitals should look like hospitals, not offices of
the political parties and those premises should be cleaned from political
slogans, banners, pamphlets and such other things.

The Sindh Health Minister said that it is prime responsibility of government
hospitals to provide better health care facilities to the patients and they
should feel comfortable when they visit hospitals.

He said that in second phase against polio in district East, Central and Korangi
was going on and due to certain reasons the drive has been extended, while in
remaining districts of Sindh the target of 6.16 million children will be
achieved.

He further told that the last polio case in Sindh was reported in February 2015
and in Karachi it was in October 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                       May 1, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

PQ's envoy to head hospital: Ottawa Hospital chief once ran as candidate for
separatist party

BYLINE: MARIA BOHUSLAWSKY; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / Front


A former political candidate for the Parti Quebecois is poised to become the
president of the new amalgamated Ottawa Hospital.

The 32-member board of trustees is expected to approve the appointment of David
Levine, a 49-year-old hospital administrator, this morning for the $
300,000-a-year job, to start July 31. The Ottawa Hospital is a merger of the
former Ottawa General, Ottawa Civic and Riverside hospitals.

Mr. Levine was a member of the separatist Parti Quebecois from 1975 to 1981. He
was the party's candidate in a 1979 byelection, which he lost.

"I was hired by the Ottawa Hospital for my competency and ability as a
health-care administrator and that's what I plan to do," said Mr. Levine, who
refuses to disclose whether he continues to hold separatist views: "My political
affiliations, political opinions don't need to play a role in this."

For the past year, he has been the delegate general of Quebec Government House
in New York City. He was appointed by the Quebec government to foster trade ties
between Quebec and the United States.

Mr. Levine served as chief executive officer of Notre Dame Hospital in Montreal
from 1992 to 1997. During his tenure, the hospital amalgamated with two others.
Before that, he served as chief executive officer of the Verdun General Hospital
for 10 years. He is a past president of the Quebec Association of Hospital
Directors and has taught health administration at Concordia University.

Mr. Levine, who is bilingual, was recruited by a headhunting company, along with
eight or nine other candidates. He was recently selected by a subcommittee of
the hospital board.

The board's short list included Michel Bilodeau, president of the Sisters of
Charity health services, which runs the Elisabeth-Bruyere Health Centre and
Saint Vincent Hospital, and Ottawa management consultant Bob Bell. (A fourth
candidate bowed out before his interview.)

"The search committee found (Mr. Levine) to be very strong in his leadership and
management skills," said Agnes Jaouich, vice-chairwoman of the nine-member
search committee.

"There was a lot of initiative and a lot of creativity. )he is) a
result-oriented visionary. It was easy for him to relate how he was going to
take us forward based on the fact that he had significant experience," said Ms.
Jaouich.

"I think his political affiliations are not of concern to the board," she said.
"The board wanted to find the most qualified individual. We all have political
affiliations, but that was not the criteria.

"It's going to be a tough job but he knew what he was getting into and was quite
excited about it," she said. "He's had similar experience when he was in
Montreal with some of the restructuring that took place there."

Peter Burns, who also served on the search committee, said the members were
satisfied by Mr. Levine's response to questions about his political past. "He
had an answer. That was the closest party to what his outlook was on life. Sort
of a social democratic party. In our minds we felt we were looking at job
skills."

Mr. Burns added that the board has asked that Mr. Levine to live in
Ottawa-Carleton rather than in Quebec. "We feel that the person must be
accessible."

Mr. Levine has a B.A in civil engineering from McGill University, a master's
degree in biomedical engineering from the Imperial College of Science and
Technology in Britain and a master's degree in health administration from the
Universite de Montreal.

In 1995, Mr. Levine was appointed by then-Quebec premier Jacques Parizeau to sit
on a Montreal-area commission set up to examine the PQ government's draft
sovereignty bill. Members of the commission represented a spectrum of political
leanings.

"I have not been involved in politics for well over 17 years now," Mr. Levine
said this week. "I have no link to politics, no involvement in politics. I have
no intention of doing anything like that at all."

He said that he was asked to run in the 1979 byelection by then-Quebec premier
Rene Levesque to explain to the English and Jewish communities some of the
issues of sovereignty and to alleviate some of their concerns. He said he
received less than one per cent of the vote.

"I was young. It was a very dynamic, exciting time and the ideas that were
brought forth at that time captured my imagination," he recalled. "I think that
maintaining the culture and language and identity of a people are very
important. That's why in Ottawa I'm very committed to ensuring the francophone
community has all the services in their language."

Ottawa-Rideau MPP Gary Guzzo said that he plans to write to Health Minister
Elizabeth Witmer about Mr. Levine. He noted that the province pays for health
care and that Ontario taxpayers will pay Mr. Levine's salary.

"I'd want the board to be satisfied that his loyalties lie with Canada, and to
the government that's paying his salary and not to a government whose goal the
breakup of this country," said Mr. Guzzo.

"The concern is that people who are trying to break up our country will continue
to be of that mind and will use whatever position they have to continue that
fight."

Regional Coun. Betty Hill called the selection of Mr. Levine "dangerous.

"Surely to God they could have found someone who was not associated with that
group," said Mrs. Hill, who helped found the consumers group, Patients First.
"We need someone with a good, healthy attitude towards unity during
restructuring," she said. "We saw what happened when they brought Bouchard back
from Paris and put him in the House of Commons."

Other members of the search committee that selected Mr. Levine included board
chairman Nick Mulder, Sol Shinder, Robert Giroux, Dr. Christina Hill, Dr. Denise
Alcock and Dr. Peter Walker.



LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1998

LENGTH: 964 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Gold Coast Bulletin

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Police and bed number query

BYLINE: by Suzanne Lappeman political reporter

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 219  words


GOLD Coast police numbers and hospital beds dominated State Parliament yesterday
as political parties continued their by-election battle over Gaven.

Opposition Leader Lawrence Springborg said Labor's candidate Phil Gray had said
the Coast's new hospital, to be built within the next decade, would have only
500 beds.

''As the present Gold Coast Hospital has 733 public hospital beds, will the
minister tell the people of Gaven if the Labor candidate was right and that
public hospital beds are going to be cut, or does he simply not have a clue
about what is happening on the Gold Coast and the Beattie Labor Government's
plans for health?'' he said.

Health Minister Stephen Robertson said bed numbers would be determined after
public and industry consultation.

The Opposition also asked why vital information about violent bikie gangs was
not passed on to police at a kickboxing tournament that ended with a shootout at
the Royal Pines more than a week ago.

Police Minister Judy Spence said the police were given information about bikie
gang members on a regular basis but she refused to comment on operational
decisions.

Ms Spence also refused to comment on the bashing of two police officers who were
attacked while waiting for back-up at Helensvale recently.

''The incident . . . is still being investigated,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Maribyrnong Leader (Melbourne, Australia)

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday
                              Maribyrnong Edition

Mayor calls for ward aid

BYLINE: Neelima Choahan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 315  words


MARIBYRNONG Mayor Nam Quach said political parties needed to commit more funds
to Footscray Hospital otherwise several wards would close next year.

Last week, Labor -announced it will spend $200 million building the Western
Women's and Children's Hospital in Sunshine if -elected.

However, Cr Quach said the facilities at Footscray Hospital were ageing and the
community -deserved the highest standard of healthcare possible. "We urge all
political parties to make funding Footscray Hospital a priority," Cr Quach said.

"Wards at Footscray Hospital are planned to be closed down next year because the
building is so unserviceable, and hazardous." Cr Quach said the council was also
advocating for -improvements to facilities for the emergency department at
Footscray Hospital.

Maribyrnong had earlier lobbied both major parties for a $550 million
redevelopment of Western Health.

The council has thrown its support behind the health provider's plan for a new
emergency department and inpatient precinct at Western Hospital to meet future
demand by 2026.

Under the initial proposal, the emergency department would more than double in
size and be relocated.

The Greens have pledged to invest $550 million.

The Liberals are yet to make any commitments to the hospital. Western Health
chief executive -Associate Professor Alex Cockram said Labor's commitment was a
very significant "next step".

Professor Cockram acknowledged the Greens' earlier commitment to fund the
Women's and Children's Centre at Sunshine.

Is Western Hospital funding a top priority? themaribyrnongleader.com.au

AT A GLANCE Labor: Will spend $200 million building the Western Women's and
Children's Hospital in Sunshine Greens: Will invest $550 million to redevelop
and expand Footscray Hospital's Emergency and Inpatient buildings. It will also
construct a Women's and Children's Centre at Sunshine HospitalLiberals: No
committnment

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Maribyrnong Leader


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

Caught spitting? Flex connections

BYLINE: Lata Mishra

LENGTH: 389 words


Here's a peek into the 'dirty' side of politics; rather into how flexing
political muscle helps dirty the city. Clean-up marshals posted at municipal
hospitals since a week, say those caught spitting or littering the premises
browbeat them into not paying a penalty by flexing their political connection to
not pay up. Since a week, many were caught for various offences but only 50 paid
the penalty.

"It's difficult for our boys to work," said zonal head for Central Investigation
Security Services, Anil Shrivastva. The agency, to which the municipal
corporation has outsourced the contract, provides clean-up marshals. The agency
is raised the issue with the medical director for civic hospitals. "Two boys
have already asked for transfers, fearing an assault by workers of political
parties," said Shrivastva. I know the boss Shrivastva cited a recent example of
clean-up marshal Sunil Kadam, posted at KEM Hospital Parel, pulled up a smoker
who was spitting on the premises. "When Kadam asked the man to pay up a fine, he
flatly refused, saying he was a Shiv Sena member, and works with Nana Ambole,
corporator from Parel," said Shrivastva. "When Kadam persisted, the offender
pulled out Ambole's visiting card, before hurling a few abuses at Kadam." Some
of the clean-up marshals have even asked for transfer from civic-run hospitals
Shrivastva said that the petrified clean-up marshal now refuses to work at KEM
Hospital. Shrivastva said other personnel have recounted similar accounts of
intimidation by workers of different political parties. "We have informed the
medical director who will now look into the matter," he said. The other side "I
want all the civic hospitals to maintain cleanliness, and am sure all political
parties will agree with me as the issue is in the larger interest of the
masses," said Medical Director Dr Sanjay Oak. "I have told the marshals that if
there's any political interference, they should report the matter to me." Dr Oak
said he had instructed the marshals not to be too harsh with those who cannot
afford the penalty, as most people visiting civic hospitals are not rich. Shiv
Sena corporator Nana Ambole refuted the allegation about his party workers using
his name to duck fines. "If anyone misuses my name, I want the clean-up marshal
to call me. Whoever the offender, he has to pay up."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Press (Christchurch)

                         September 16, 1998, Wednesday

Hospital plan released today

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 13; COURTS

LENGTH: 212 words


WELLINGTON -- The Government will today release its hospital plan, finally
bringing certainty to communities about what services their local hospital will
offer.

Health Minister Bill English is due to launch the five-year plan at Wanganui
Hospital.

Mr English said the launch would coincide with him seeking support from other
political parties for the plan's implementation ''as a step towards wider
political consensus on health issues''.

The plan will designate services to be performed at every hospital, and is
expected to downgrade the number of high-tech hospitals performing a full range
of major surgery.

A leaked Health Funding Authority memo in March prompted uproar when it
suggested elective surgery might disappear from Kaitaia, Whakatane, Masterton,
Wairau, and Ashburton Hospitals and that surgery in Gisborne, Wanganui and
Greymouth Hospitals might also be at risk.

At the time Mr English said everyone needed certainty, and changes could not be
made to hospitals in isolation but they were all inter-related.

He said the plan was ''revolutionary'' in determining what acute and emergency
services would be provided across the country.--NZPA

--------------------

CAPTION:

Bill English

Supplied by New Zealand Press Association

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 Fairfax New Zealand


                              88 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Illawarra Mercury

                             August 25, 2017 Friday
                                Internet Edition

Labour Council calls for action on donations

BYLINE: BRENDAN CRABB

LENGTH: 343 words


The South Coast Labour Council has called for the banning of all political
donations from private health and pharmaceutical corporations to parties and
candidates at all levels of government.

The Labour Council made the resolution this week.

The organisation says this is "a first step to stop the corruption of public
health policy and the insidious threats by government to privatize our public
hospitals".

The resolution notes, "until such a ban is legally imposed we demand all
parties, politicians and candidates to voluntarily declare that they will not
solicit or accept any donations from these sources with immediate effect".

"We ban donations from property developers to stop politicians from being
corrupted and selling off our public land," Labour Council secretary Arthur
Rorris said.

"So why do we allow politicians to be corrupted by private hospital owners and
multinational drug companies who want them to sell off our hospitals?"

Mr Rorris said "millions of dollars have been donated, mainly to the Liberal
Party".

"Do they honestly expect us to believe these are philanthropic gestures?" he
said.

"We don't have to wait for the new legislation. In the interim we are calling
for a voluntary ban on these donations and we ask our politicians to step up to
the plate and show some integrity."

Mr Rorris recently questioned why some of the nation's private health
corporations are channelling millions of dollars to a "political party with a
privatisation agenda''.

Mr Rorris said Australian Electoral Commission data revealed that health and
pharmaceutical companies had forked out more than $8 million in political
donations in the past decade. He said the vast majority of the donations went to
the Liberal Party with Ramsay Health Care - which operates Wollongong, Figtree,
Lawrence Hargrave and Nowra private hospitals - one of the biggest donors.

A Ramsay Health spokeswoman said the company had donated money to many
organisations and causes, including the Labor Party.

READ MORE: Questions over private health corporations big political donations

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Illawarra Newspapers Holding Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            November 2, 2012 Friday

They're all nuts

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Nov. 2 -- There is a general definition of madness, craziness or
insanity as a spectrum of behaviours characterised by certain abnormal mental or
behavioural patterns. The belief is that insanity may manifest itself as
violations of societal norms, including the sufferers becoming a danger to
themselves or others. The ever so famous Albert Einstein also had his own
definition, adding to the above-mentioned understanding: "Insanity is doing the
same thing over and over again and expecting different results." It is worth
noting that, in fact, words like madness, craziness or insanity are no longer
used to reflect the state of mental health or mental illness. Madness is a
miniscule component of mental illness and it is legally derogatory and
unscientific to call people who suffer from mental health problems or
psychosocial disabilities mad or crazy. Such acts are actually punishable under
law. Nonetheless, the essence of the definition deserves some scrutiny.

If we observe Nepal's political environment, it is worrisome because the country
is heading towards madness. No one can predict what is going to happen. But the
same things are being repeated in the national scenario over the years and they
are an unending series of dialogues between a handful of the same leaders with
the same agenda and the same perspective but expecting different results. When
mad, an individual who suffers becomes a victim of abuse, violence and neglect
from others. But when we speak of political madness, the whole country suffers
instead of the actors who created this national madness. Nepal has already
started showing symptoms of political madness, and its worst victims are public
institutions like health, education, transportation and employment, affecting
the lives of the poor and most vulnerable in society.

Our public institutions have suffered badly in the last decade. Their quality of
service is rapidly falling. The environment at the declining public institutions
is sufficient to upset all who rely on them. Whether we visit government
offices, public universities or health institutions, all of them are suffering
from the same fate-they are seemingly just waiting to die.

At every public institution, there is fierce competition to grab the top posts
and these posts are divided among the leading political parties. They're all
nuts over power. For instance, positions of dean, director, manager and
vice-chancellor have been political gifts where responsibility and
accountability towards the respective institutions are sacrificed. If the
appointee pays perfect loyalty to the political landlord, he or she is qualified
to hold any post in public institutions. This trend has been institutionalised
in every sector in the country. The result is that public services are no longer
usable, thus creating more chaos and stress in public life. The obsession with
power and positions at the top has a ripple effect on society, thereby creating
more kinds of obsessions and trauma among the general people.

Evidence of this state of affairs can be seen at university campuses, hospitals
and public transportation. As I live close to Teaching Hospital, Maharajgunj, I
am a frequent visitor there. Every time I visit the hospital, I can clearly
observe how terribly the hospital environment is disintegrating. The management
cares two hoots for service provision due to the political madness that hovers
over and around the hospital. As a result, the toilets cannot be used. The
floors stink. The walls and wall paintings are broken and faded. Infrastructure
is not being maintained. There is no drinkable water on hospital premises.

In the morning, visitors and patient caretakers sleep here and there, as if the
hospital was an open lodge. During the day, hordes of patients and haphazardly
parked vehicles give the impression that some festival is taking place in the
hospital.

This does not mean that there are no excellent minds in our public institutions
like the Teaching Hospital who can manage the problem. But it does mean that the
best minds have been neglected while improving the fate of our public
institutions. It signifies that the increasing political madness is gradually
dragging the country towards darkness.

If the vulnerable people are counted as citizens of the country, their life is
full of stress, despair and exclusion. If a person with a disability has to
travel from one part of the country to another or even within the city, the
public vehicles are not only inaccessible but transport operators openly
discourage such individuals from travelling. At the political level, popular
slogans are regularly coined, but no useful discussions are held about improving
the quality of public life and the quality of public institutions that fulfil
the needs of the poor and the vulnerable in the country.

It is shocking that, individually, all the political leaders are nice and seem
compassionate and are well informed about the situation, but collectively, they
are failing themselves and the country. They are obsessed with power and seem
blind to the rest of the world. They tirelessly banter on saying that the
ongoing political dialogue will ensure long-term peace, prosperity and
development of the country and the people. It is amazing how we can believe the
words of such leaders who have been repeating the same thing over the years. If
Einstein is to be believed, it appears our political leaders are becoming mad.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                             August 25, 2006 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Torpedo for new;
hospital misfires

BYLINE: by Robyn Wuth

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 561  words


THE Gold Coast Medical Association campaign to torpedo the billion-dollar
Parklands superhospital ran into trouble yesterday when the group's counterplan
was unveiled by a former president of the Gold Coast Liberal Party.

Association president Dr David Lindsay and Dr Robert McLaughlin unveiled the
submission for the future direction of the Southport hospital as an 'unbiased
and non-political' solution to the health crisis.

The association's plan also came under fire from doctors working within the Gold
Coast Hospital, who said they supported the Parklands proposal.

The proposal calls for the state of the art superhospital to be ditched in
favour of upgrading and extending the current Southport hospital.

The plan would create an additional 200 beds - a proposal almost identical to
the plan released by Liberal leader Bruce Flegg last week.

Dr Lindsay dismissed any suggestion that the submission was politically
motivated.

''Our whole point has been to present an unbiased and non-political point of
view on the crisis in the Gold Coast Hospital,'' said Dr Lindsay.

Dr McLaughlin said he had not been involved in politics for years.

''I'm no longer a member of the Liberals. We have been anxious to keep this non-
political.''

Dr McLaughlin, however, admitted the proposal was 'similar' to the Liberal
position.

''We have made no secret of the fact that we are talking to all political
parties. A lot of the proposals put to the Liberals they have adopted.''

The proposal involves the development of several storeys comprising accident and
emergency, intensive care and other wards.

Dr Lindsay said the Gold Coast's health system was in crisis and could not
afford to wait for a new hospital to be completed in 2012.

''The essential aspect of this report is that the crisis for the Gold Coast is
now.

''This proposal will give the Gold Coast 200 beds in the next two years. We do
not believe the 500-bed Southport hospital should be written off for Parklands.

''It should be renovated and the area made into a hospital precinct.''

But the plan has come under fire from the doctors working within the Gold Coast
Hospital.

Full Time Senior Staff Specialists' Association president Dr John Gerrard said
senior doctors working full-time at the Gold Coast Hospital supported the
proposal for Parklands.

''We believe that the proposal to build the University Hospital at the Parklands
site is a visionary, once-in-a-generation opportunity which must not be
missed,'' he said.

''Such an environment would have the potential to attract health professionals
from throughout Australia and the around the world.

''In addition to promoting excellence in patient care, the co-location with the
university will create the ideal environment for research and training of future
doctors, nurses and the allied health professionals.''

Dr Gerrard said the hospital had already signed up five specialists on the
promise of the Parklands proposal.

''The Gold Coast should not accept a second best solution.

''Building on the existing site at Southport would be slower, more expensive and
more disruptive than building on a new site such as Parklands - the current 4
hectare site at Southport is already overcrowded.

''There is no free land . . . space is inadequate for beds, operating theatres,
outpatient clinics, X-ray, medical records and parking.

''The wards and Emergency Department are overcrowded.''

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Illawarra Mercury

                             August 25, 2017 Friday
                                 Print Edition

Arthur

BYLINE: BRENDAN CRABB

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 330 words


The South Coast Labour Council has called for the banning of all political
donations from private health and pharmaceutical corporations to parties and
candidates at all levels of government.

The Labour Council made the resolution this week.

The organisation says this is "a first step to stop the corruption of public
health policy and the insidious threats by government to privatize our public
hospitals".

The resolution notes, "until such a ban is legally imposed we demand all
parties, politicians and candidates to voluntarily declare that they will not
solicit or accept any donations from these sources with immediate effect".

"We ban donations from property developers to stop politicians from being
corrupted and selling off our public land," Labour Council secretary Arthur
Rorris said.

"So why do we allow politicians to be corrupted by private hospital owners and
multinational drug companies who want them to sell off our hospitals?"

Mr Rorris said "millions of dollars have been donated, mainly to the Liberal
Party".

"Do they honestly expect us to believe these are philanthropic gestures?" he
said.

"We don't have to wait for the new legislation. In the interim we are calling
for a voluntary ban on these donations and we ask our politicians to step up to
the plate and show some integrity."

Mr Rorris recently questioned why some of the nation's private health
corporations are channelling millions of dollars to a "political party with a
privatisation agenda''.

Mr Rorris said Australian Electoral Commission data revealed that health and
pharmaceutical companies had forked out more than $8 million in political
donations in the past decade. He said the vast majority of the donations went to
the Liberal Party with Ramsay Health Care - which operates Wollongong, Figtree,
Lawrence Hargrave and Nowra private hospitals - one of the biggest donors.

A Ramsay Health spokeswoman said the company had donated money to many
organisations and causes, including the Labor Party.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Illawarra Newspapers Holding Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             June 8, 1993, Tuesday

Study: Gingrich got fourth of health lobby funds $ 1.5 million given to Ga.
delegation

BYLINE: By Steve Sternberg STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 14

LENGTH: 328 words


Washington - Current members of Georgia's U.S. congressional delegation have
gotten $ 1.5 million from health-care lobbyists since 1979, and one-fourth of
that money has gone to Rep. Newt Gingrich, who took office that year, according
to a study released Monday.

The study, by the consumer group Citizen Action, found that Mr. Gingrich - who
is the House minority whip and a staunch supporter of free- market medicine -
has collected $ 433,000 from health and insurance lobbyists since 1979.

According to Citizen Action, Mr. Gingrich received $ 100,000 from health
interests last year.

"Contributions have never influenced my position on health-care reform or any
other issue," Mr. Gingrich said in a statement. "I appreciate support from
groups and individuals who think I am doing a good job representing them."

Rep. J. Roy Rowland, (D-Ga.), a Dublin doctor, collected $ 312,053, about
one-third of it from doctors, the study found.

In Georgia, lawmakers backing market-based health reforms have collected $
901,312 in donations, compared with just $ 252,472 for politicians, including
Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), who support a government- run program modeled after the
Canadian plan.

Among the biggest contributors were the American Medical Association - which
gave $ 97,441 to Mr. Gingrich and $ 55,700 to Mr. Rowland; the American Hospital
Association; a variety of medical specialty groups; and a number of insurance
companies.

Even some local groups spread money around. Although it is part of the AMA, the
Georgia Medical Association contributed an additional $ 10,300 to Mr. Gingrich;
$ 6,988 to Mr. Rowland; and $ 2,000 to Mr. Lewis.

One political action committee started by an Atlanta company, TMedical Inc.,
which has made millions by helping doctors organize home- infusion therapy
companies, contributed $ 7,000 to Mr. Gingrich; $ 5,000 to freshman Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R-Ga.); and $ 1,500 to another freshman, Rep. Don Johnson (D-Ga.).

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931680223

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              93 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Press (Christchurch)

                          November 10, 1999, Wednesday

Clark hospital meeting banned

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 6; NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 187 words


HAMILTON -- Labour leader Helen Clark has been barred from holding a meeting at
Waikato Hospital, a move she says is unprecedented.

"I am outraged. I have never struck this in all my years in politics," she said
yesterday after Health Waikato chief executive Jan White ordered that a
union-organised meeting with Ms Clark could not be held on hospital grounds.

Miss Clark, a former health minister, was to meet Nurses' Organisation members
and Service Workers' Union representatives at the Bryant Centre at Waikato
Hospital in Hamilton yesterday.

She said she understood the centre was regularly hired to outside groups. The
ban on her meeting was a "politicisation of the health system".

Waikato Hospital communications manager Anne Evans said the meeting was
discovered by hospital management on Sunday when posters went up. Ms White
contacted Miss Clark's office to say it could not go ahead. The State Services
Commission and the Crown Company Monitoring Unit had ruled that the hospital
could not host political parties or candidates, Ms Evans said. --NZPA

Supplied by New Zealand Press Association

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 Fairfax New Zealand


                              94 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday

Cancer hospital seeks Capital cure

LENGTH: 185  words

DATELINE: BHARATPUR


BHARATPUR, April 27 -- A delegation from the Bharatpur-based BP Koirala Memorial
Cancer Hospital is visiting the Capital on Thursday in its effort to seek a
solution to the ongoing dispute that has crippled the hospital's services for
the past two months.

Factional war among the hospital staff over the appointment of a new executive
director has affected the hospital services. Many poor patients have been
deprived of free health care.

The delegation plans to mount pressure on the health minister and leaders of the
big three political parties to resolve the crisis.

Rameshworman Shrestha, the chairman of the hospital management committee, said
political meddling has deepened the crisis in the hospital and that only a
political agreement could solve the problem.

The hospital will remain closed from Thursday, except for emergency services, to
press the sides concerned to resolve the dispute at the earliest. Published by
HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Junction City Daily Union, Kan.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 24, 2017 Friday

GCH fights to provide for its patients in tough political times

BYLINE: Derek Smith, Junction City Daily Union, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 476 words


March 24--Healthcare is an essential need in any developed society. But it has
become a hot political issue in the last decade in America, and in Kansas.

With the passing of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2009, healthcare became a
constant headline in the American political consciousness, and has remained so
since.

In Kansas, Medicaid cuts have caused issues for patients and hospitals, forcing
both to make tough financial decisions.

"There's a lot of uncontrollables going on with hospitals right now, and we have
to react to it," Geary Community Hospital CEO Joe Stratton said Thursday in a
speech at the Military Affairs Council Breakfast. "And it's really hard to
strategize with some of those things."

Stratton said in his speech that according to the Kansas Department of Health
and Environment, Geary Community Hospital lost an estimated $1.2 million last
year due to the failure to expand Medicaid at the state level. According to
Stratton, the hospital also stands to potentially lose $520,000 in yearly
federal funding through disproportionate share payments if the current proposed
healthcare plan passes through congress and replaces the ACA.

"When you get in a hurry, bad things happen," Stratton said of the federal plan.
"And they're in a hurry."

The federal bill has yet to hit the floor, so it's unknown whether
disproportionate share payments are on the way out. It's also hard to know what
will happen on the state level with Medicaid, but Stratton said he doesn't see
anything changing as long as Gov. Sam Brownback remains in office.

"That affects healthcare in your own local community, as well as the long-term
viability of hospitals," Stratton said in an interview after his speech. "You
have to sometimes take risks that otherwise you wouldn't take, because it's a
guessing game. You don't know what's going on on the political side."

But the situation isn't without its bright side. Along with the grim financial
situation, greater communication systems have grown between hospitals.

"Hospitals are figuring out how to work together more," Stratton said. "So from
that sense, for patients and families, I think that's a positive. We live in a
fluid society. What we can't do at Geary Community Hospital, maybe they can do
at Stormont Vail (in Topeka). We have some relationship with them. We talk with
the people in Salina. We talk with the people in Clay Center."

But as long as healthcare remains a hot-buttton issue on the political scene,
patients and hospitals will be left in limbo.

"It would be nice if healthcare reform would just get settled, and they would
decide," Stratton said. "So over the next 10 years we could just know how to
plan."

___ (c)2017 the Junction City Daily Union (Junction City, Kan.) Visit the
Junction City Daily Union (Junction City, Kan.) at http://www.yourdu.net/
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170324-1JC-GCH-fights-to-provide-for-its-patients-in-tough-political
-times-0324-20170324

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1JC


                                 Copyright 2017


                              96 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Beverley Guardian

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

Hospital is in wrong location

BYLINE: Staff Copy

LENGTH: 396 words


New hospital. Right idea, Wrong place. No consultation
The East Riding of Yorkshire Primary Care Trust, has chosen a site for a new
Beverley Hospital off Swinemoor Lane.It is not long ago that we were told by the
ERYPCT, that the services at Beverley Westwood Hospital were going to be
dramatically reduced,and the back part of the site was to be sold for a housing
estate, which made the remaining half look unviable.There was no talk of a new
hospital to replace it, or of a new site, or of any funding to build it.

As if by magic, some time after a lengthy and expensive 'consultation', all
these things suddenly appeared, despite the fact that the Trust never publicly
accepted any of the objectors' opinions, and claimed to be so short of funding,
that hospital services would have to be reduced.The objectors to the proposals
formed the Beverley Hospital Action Group, and subsequently, the East Riding
Hospital Action Group. The groups were apolitical, although local councillors of
all parties        attended. I attended all the Action Group meetings, and many
protest marches. It is not at all clear why there has been a magical U turn in
policy by the ERYPCT. Some local councillors worked hard, and others (from
various political parties) were only conspicuous by their political point
scoring when they did attend meetings,and later became conspicuous by their
absence. I don't recall meeting the prospective Labour Parliamentary candidate,
Ian Saunders, who wrote in your letters pages to criticise the efforts of local
Conservative MP, Graham Stuart.I do not have any political allegiances, and so
do not defend or criticise former Conservative government policy, but it is
undeniable that Graham Stuart has worked extremely hard on the hospital
campaign. He has led from the front all the time, been at many key meetings, and
appeared at protest marches in every town where services were under   threat. He
did a valuable job in helping to unite all the hospital action groups. Beverley
needs politicians who work hard on our behalf, whatever party they belong
to.After an expensive 'consultation' process, costing into millions of pounds,
the ERYPCT has nowdecided to do something completely different without proper
consultation. The site has been chosen, building contractors shortlisted, and a
planning application has already been lodged for site clearance.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BEVG


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           September 27, 2004 Monday
                                 First Edition

States rule the roost in hospital spending

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 257 words


Would Mark Latham's offer of an additional $750 million a year of commonwealth
funding for public hospitals result in an increase in total expenditure by
public hospitals? When asked what would happen to public hospital spending by
the states he could say only that this would be a matter for "co-operation".

Latham obviously has a lot to learn about state premiers, even those of
supposedly similar political views.

The states fund 36 per cent of total public hospitals spending of about $20
billion a year. However, the states' share has been falling and increased
commonwealth funding on top of existing generous health grants arrangements
(which provide an additional 5 per cent a year) would almost certainly continue
that trend. In short, Latham's promise of a further $750 million a year of
commonwealth funding will not result in a commensurate increase in total
spending on public hospitals.

Neither of the major political parties will recognise publicly that the states
are the final determinants of how much is spent on hospitals (and, for that
matter, on schools). The reason is that, for political presentation purposes,
federal ministers want to be able to claim to be funding these specific areas
when they might just as effectively be providing (albeit less sexy) general
purpose grants. Indeed, such a reform in federal-state relations would be a
major improvement to the present mess in respective responsibilities and
overlaps in health and schools education.

Des Moore,

Director, Institute for Private Enterprise,

South Yarra, Vic.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON: By Mark Cornwall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2004 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             March 19, 2012 Monday

Nurses' strike gets political patronage

SECTION: KOCHI

LENGTH: 295 words


KOCHI: With the striking nurses of Lakeshore Hospital getting political
patronage, the strike will take a new dimension from Monday. Youth wings of
political parties such as DYFI, Yuvamorcha and SFI have come forward to support
the agitators. On Sunday, these activists conducted a march near Lakeshore
Hospital declaring their solidarity.

According to DYFI district president P Vasudevan, the organization would support
the striking nurses till the authorities accepted their demands.

"We are supporting the nurses' strike as they are fighting for a noble cause. We
are demanding that the government and hospital management should 0start giving
minimum wages to nurses as per the agreement," he said.

An action council headed by a municipal councillor was formed by the political
parties to support the striking nurses. The action council will also conduct a
mass protest march on Tuesday morning in front the hospital.

Meanwhile, nurses across the state observed Black Day on Sunday, , as per the
call by United Nurses Association (UNA),

in protest against the arrest of their colleagues by the police on Saturday. The
nurses wore a black badge while attending regular duties. Nurses from Lakeshore
Hospital who were arrested and released on Saturday continued their strike in
front of the hospital.

"We will continue our strike until authorities accept the terms of agreement
signed in the presence of labour minister. The state government should do
something immediately to find a solution to the issue," said Beljo Elias,
district president of United Nurses Association (UNA).

From Monday, nurses from all hospitals in the district have threatened to take
part in the protest declaring their solidarity with the striking nurses at
Lakeshore.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     May 16, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

A nasty streak of McCarthyism

BYLINE: THE GAZETTE

SECTION: EDITORIAL / OP-ED; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 525 words


David Levine is wrong. He is not simply a hospital administrator who has been
hired to run the new Ottawa Hospital, the medical facility created April 1 with
the merger of Ottawa's two largest hospitals.

He is now also a litmus test - one that far too many people are failing.

Mr. Levine, 50, is a Montreal anglophone who in 1979 ran as a candidate for the
Parti Quebecois, losing against Liberal Herbert Marx. He is currently serving as
the Quebec delegate-general in New York, installed by the Parti Quebecois.

The outrage his hospital appointment has caused in Ottawa and beyond is a little
frightening. People by the hundreds are canceling charitable donations to the
new hospital, charging that Mr. Levine will turn the institution into a
beachhead for separatists.

The whole affair calls to mind U.S. Senator Joe McCarthy and the communist
witchhunts of the 1950s. Will we now demand to know the political affiliation of
every person appointed to the civil service? Are you now or have you ever been a
sympathizer of the Parti Quebecois?

There are a few jobs - Canadian ambassadorships, for example - which by their
nature require a federalist leaning. Aside from those few positions, however,
there is no excuse for delving into someone's political beliefs as a prelude to
hiring them. Every Canadian citizen - a civic category that includes Quebec
separatists - is guaranteed under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
the right to freedom of conscience and opinion.

Canadians of all political persuasions should be alarmed at what little respect
even politicians at the highest level give our legal guarantee to freedom of
opinion. Consider these positions:

- Ontario Health Minister Elizabeth Witmer said the Ottawa Hospital board should
reconsider Mr. Levine's appointment, given the impact its decision has had on
the community.

- Ontario MPP Garry Guzzo suggested there is a danger that Mr. Levine would fill
the hospital administration with separatists.

- Federal Intergovernmental Affairs Minister Stephane Dion said the displays of
intolerance that met Mr. Levine's appointment were inevitable as long as there
was a threat of separation.

Thankfully, the Ottawa Civic Hospital's board of directors and doctors have
rejected the idea that Mr. Levine's politics should disqualify him from running
the hospital.

Nick Mulder, board chairman, said yesterday, "The political, religious and
personal beliefs of the chief executive officer or of any other member of the
hospital staff at any level are not relevant in the performance of his or her
duties."

That is an eloquent defence of every Canadian's right to their political
beliefs. It is too bad that Canada's elected representatives couldn't see their
way to making that same argument.

Diversity of political opinion and tolerance for other points of view are things
that make Canada great. After all, this country tolerated the separatist Bloc
Quebecois as the official opposition for four years - a measure of our respect
for democracy.

Mr. Levine was hired because he was the best available candidate for the job.
Enough said.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday

JPMC administration remove political party's banners, flags

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 1003

LENGTH: 269  words


Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre administration has removed all the wall
chalking, panaflax, banners, flags and portraits of political party's leaders
from the premises of institution on the directive of provincial health minister.

Deputy Director Admin  and  Focal Person, Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, Dr
Jawaid  Akhter Jamali, said in the light of provincial health minister and court
order that the administration had removed all wall chalking, panaflax, banners,
flags and portraits of political party's leadership from OPDs, Wards, doctors
and staff colonies

He said offices of political parties had already been closed down in the
premises of healthcare and no any office of medical wing of political party
exist any more in the institution.  He said prime responsibility of public
hospital administration is to provide better treatment facilities to patients
who should feel comfortable when they visit hospital.

He said several paramedical associations haven't established their offices
inside hospital premises but hoisted party flags, portraits of leaders and
painted slogans on the walls.

Dr Jamali said health institutions should be freed from politics as they provide
treatment to all segments of society without any discrimination. He said
administration had clear stance on the issue that the health institution should
be spared from all kind of political interferences.

It was pertinent to mention here that Sindh Health Minister Jam Mehtab Dahar had
issued strict instructions to administrations of public hospitals to shut down
offices of all political parties established inside their premises.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             August 15, 2014 Friday

Airoli hospital opens, but residents barred entry

BYLINE: B B Nayak

SECTION: NAVI MUMBAI

LENGTH: 238 words


NAVI MUMBAI: The city cops, political leaders and civic officials got a closer
view of the newly-opened Airoli civic hospital on Thursday, unlike the local
residents, who were kept away from the inauguration.

The opening function was carried out under heavy police bandobast, following
political protests during the Nerul civic hospital OPD inauguration earlier this
week.

The heavily-guarded hospital in Airoli had cops blocking the movement of
residents on the bylane leading to the civic hospital in sector 3.

Following political protests, staged during the Nerul civic hospital opening on
Monday, cops turned up in great numbers at the CBD civic hospital inauguration
on Tuesday.

However, on Thursday, no residents were allowed inside the new hospital
premises. All roads leading to the hospital near the ward office were also
closed.

"When a public facility, built with taxpayers' money, is thrown open, citizens
should get first access. It was unfair to stop residents from entering the
hospital premises on the day of its inauguration," said a resident Mazhar Khan.

The onlookers, who came to catch a glimpse of the new healthcare facility
developed by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, had to do it from a distance.
This led to traffic bottlenecks on the surrounding routes as well.

"After the Nerul pandemonium, we had to take precautionary measures to avoid
repetition," said a senior cop.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           February 27, 2003 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Coalition prescription: three new country hospitals;
Election 03

BYLINE: Nick O'Malley

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 327 words


A Coalition government would spend $199 million replacing three hospitals in
Bathurst and Orange, the National Party leader, George Souris, said yesterday.

New Bathurst and Orange Base hospitals would be built within four years, as
would a replacement for Orange's Bloomfield psychiatric hospital.

"They are totally out of date," Mr Souris said.

"They were built with a 20 or 30-year life span in mind and they have been
around more than double that."

He said that the new hospitals would be incorporated into doctor training
programs to attract more doctors into rural and regional NSW.

The hospitals appeared on a document prepared by the NSW Government last year
that listed state infrastructure to be built within the next 10 years. But so
far, the funding had not been approved.

A spokesman for the Health Minister, Craig Knowles, said the Government has
already spent $500,000 on a study and community consultation to select sites for
the hospitals and would soon be announcing details of costings and locations.

On the campaign trail in Maitland and on the Central Coast yesterday, the
Opposition Leader, John Brogden, announced a plan to transfer 100 jobs from the
National Parks and Wildlife Service head office to Maitland.

"There is absolutely no reason why NSW government departments and agencies have
to be headquartered in Sydney, particularly with modern communications systems
such as teleconferencing, email and fax," he said.

He said the strategy was part of a wider Coalition plan to distribute government
jobs across the whole of the state that would be unveiled later in the campaign.

Mr Brogden also announced a scheme to produce photo identification similar to
the RTA Proof of Age Card used by young people, for older people who no longer
have drivers' licences.

He outlined a scheme to extend the annual Premier's Seniors Concert, held during
Seniors Week, to a series of 10 concerts to be held around the state each year,
at a total cost of $1 million.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Promises ... Chris Hartcher, left, with Mr Brogden in Terrigal
at Senior Citizens Centre. Photo: Ryan Osland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2003 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                              March 7, 2008 Friday

Dr AQ Khan be made President: Qazi

BYLINE: Our staff reporter

LENGTH: 686 words


ISLAMABAD - Jamaat-i-Islami Chief Qazi Hussain Ahmad here on Friday urged the
winning political parties to make Dr AQ Khan as the President of Pakistan.

He said this while talking to media persons after an abortive attempt to meet
father of country's nuclear programme Dr  AQ Khan who is admitted in KRL
hospital. Qazi said that the detention of ailing national hero was illegal
adding, "Our national hero is seriously ill and to keep him detained in this
precarious condition of health and disallowing him to meet others is a bid to
please the US".

Qazi Hussain Ahmad's attempt to enter into KRL hospital to meet Dr A Q Khan was
thwarted by the hospital administration that locked the central gate of the
hospital. The hospital administration said that Qazi could not meet the sick
Doctor as the visiting hours had passed.

"Dr A Q Khan is the heart-throb of the nation. His ailment has sent a wave of
shock and dismay among the people. He should be allowed to meet his relatives
and friends to allay his mental shock, Qazi demanded. JI President said that Dr
Khan was his old friend and it was a heinous act on the part of government to
disallow him (Qazi) to meet atomic scientist. He said that the whole nation was
waiting that some responsible person should meet Dr A Q Khan to make the public
aware of the fact.

Qazi Hussain Ahmed said the hospital authorities had told them that A.Q.Khan was
not in the hospital but later told that the Admin officer was not present in
hospital to give permission. "We were also told that Dr Khan is taking rest and
does not want to meet anyone", he said. He said that the government had
disconnected Dr Khan's phone that was a shameful act of the government and
alleged that the hospital administration had kept Abdul Qadeer in detention at
4th floor of the hospital.

Responding to a question he said Abdul Qadeer Khan was the benefactor of the
country and a hero of Muslim youths. "He should be given due respect and be
restored to his respective office. It is incumbent on the winning democratic
forces to immediately announce to install Dr Qadeer Khan as the President of the
country", JI Chief demanded. He urged the leadership of PPP, PML-N and other
political parties to visit the hospital to enquire after Dr A Q Khan's health.

Earlier, while addressing a protest demonstration at Faisal Mosque after Jumma
prayers Qazi said that the entire nation would reject the upcoming Government if
it failed in the reinstatement of pre-November 3 judiciary and the constitution.
He urged the winning political parties to stop their meetings with the US
officials. The demonstration was held against Israeli aggression against
innocent Palestinian people and the publication of blasphemous sketches in
Danish newspapers.

Qazi Hussain Ahmed noted that February 18 verdict reflected the hatred of
Pakistani people against the United States. He observed that the real test of
political parties would start after coming into power and time would be given to
new Government to revert all the unconstitutional steps of the previous
Government.

He urged the nation to forge unity in its ranks saying, "It is the only way to
make Pakistan independent, sovereign and an Islamic state". Condemning the
Israeli aggression against Palestinian people Qazi expressed concern over the
efforts of rulers in recognizing the Jewish State but categorically said that
Pakistanis would foil such efforts.

Qazi said that accepting the Israeli occupation on Palestine was a cruel apathy
of the Muslim rulers.

"The Palestinian lives have been made miserable by unleashing horrendous
oppressions on them and innocent children are being massacred. One-fourth of the
world is constituted of the Muslim countries rich in natural resources but they
could not do anything", he observed. He said that the Muslims were not even
conscious of the oppressions perpetrated in Palestine and Gaza.

Former parliamentarian Mian Aslam also addressed the protestors and said that
democracy was the future of Pakistan and not the dictatorship and added, "Any
nefarious designs against the country would be foiled".

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Domestic Politics

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                           Copyright 2008 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday

Parking fee explanation disgraceful: advocate; ? Cécile Cassista expresses
outrage over money collected being used to attend political fundraiser

BYLINE: shawn berry legislature bureau ?

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 404  words


FREDERICTON - News that $5,000 from parking fees collected at New Brunswick
hospitals was used to attend a political fundraiser is disgraceful, a seniors
advocate says.

Cécile Cassista said yesterday that the Horizon Health Network's explanation
that money collected from parking fees is used to pay for participation in
community events should prompt a new look at the burden those levies impose on
users.

"People can't afford to go visit their loved ones in the hospital, they can't
afford that ... It's very costly," said Cassista, executive director of the
Coalition for Seniors and Nursing Home Residents' Rights.

"Every day I've gone to a hospital I've had to pay, even for a medical checkup.
That's unacceptable."

Cassista said that until now, she, like many others, never stopped to consider
where the money was going, but she said she wouldn't have thought it was leaving
the hospital budget.

"In hindsight, I would have thought it was going back into the hospital sector,
into the health-care system. But now I hear they're buying tickets for political
parties, that's absolutely no question they shouldn't be doing that."

An editorial in the Canadian Medical Association Journal in November said
parking fees at hospitals flout the founding principles of the Canada Health
Act, which states Canadians should have access to health care without financial
or other barriers.

The editorial, by interim editor-in-chief Dr. Rajendra Kale, states the charges
interfere with patient care and should be dropped by Canadian hospitals.

Kale was unavailable for comment yesterday.

Last fall, he wrote that hospitals justify parking fees as much-needed sources
of revenue, "and will look to (provincial health) ministers to make good such
losses."

But while hospitals "rake in several million dollars from parking fees, the net
revenue from parking is likely to be around one per cent of the total revenue,"
he wrote.

Horizon Health recently ruled that parking fees will be introduced at the
regional hospital in Miramichi.

Cassista said that if parking fees are going to remain in place, health
authorities should remain accountable for every penny they spend.

"There are better places for that money," she said. She would like to see that
money go to help home-care support.

"Parking is like a cash cow to them, obviously, if they're just handing it out
for political rallies," Cassista said. "I think it's just disgraceful, quite
frankly."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Nuneaton News

                            November 5, 2012 Monday

War of words over the future of the George Eliot Hospital

BYLINE: MORT BIRCH

LENGTH: 570  words


A WAR of words has erupted between councillor Brian Hawkes, Chairman of the
North Warwickshire and Bedworth Labour Party, and Dan Byles, the constituency's
Conservative MP, over the George Eliot Hospital.

Cllr Hawkes has accused Dan Byles of using his weekly column in the Nuneaton
News to 'preach NHS privatisation.'

He said: "He misled people about the facts and then had the brass neck to accuse
'others' of making the issue 'political.'

"Firstly, the Conservative proposal to sell the running of the Eliot to a
private company is a political issue.

"Claiming that his support for it is 'non political' whilst labelling his
opponents as 'political' is trite.

"You are either for NHS public service values or you want privatisation and I
believe privatisation would devalue the public service values of NHS hospitals
by making profit rather than patients a motivation.

"Secondly, the last Labour government encouraged the Eliot to become a
Foundation Trust (FT), but the Board announced in July 2011 that it could not
meet an arbitrary deadline of April 2014 imposed by the Health Secretary Andrew
Lansley.

"This happened under the Conservative government and not under Labour as Mr
Byles suggested in his column.

"Thirdly, the Conservative MP should argue his case for privatisation at the
Eliot openly. He should not pretend that advancing an argument for privatisation
is 'non political' because the hospital board is involved."

Cllr Hawkes added: "The board is being driven down a road paved by its political
masters.

Ministers obstructed FT status last year, then insisted the hospital must merge
or be taken over, and then said the private sector should be able to bid to run
the hospital, So Mr Byles cannot hide behind the board.

"Let's be honest with people about the political values at stake and have an
open debate about this crucial issue concerning the future of the hospital."

Dan Byles dismissed the accusations as 'predictable, desperate rubbish from a
local Labour Party that has offered no positive ideas to secure the future of
the George Eliot Hospital.'

The MP said: "Nobody is advocating privatising the Eliot - the Trust Board are
looking for a partner organisation and instead of being ideological about it are
considering a range of potential partners.

"I have made no case for them, I am leaving it to the Trust Board to make the
best decision for the Eliot.

"Labour, apparently, do not trust them to do that.

Instead, they prefer to create political dividing lines rather than seek the
best solution."

He claimed Cllr Hawkes does not know the history of the hospital's quest for FT
status, otherwise he would have known that it was refused in 2009 under the last
Labour government.

"His incorrect statement comes just a few weeks after another Labour councillor
embarrassingly put out a press release claiming there were no financial problems
the day after it was revealed the hospital is facing a £5m deficit," he said.

"One has to wonder if these Labour councillors are more interested in a cheap
headline than in being accurate."

He added: "I want to financially secure the Eliot in the NHS, continuing as a
District General Hospital proving a full range of safe, clinical service to
local people, free at the point of use and funded out of general taxation.

"If the Labour Party want the same thing, they should stop scaremongering and
spreading untruths and start to contribute positive ideas to the debate."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NN


                    Copyright 2012 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             March 3, 1998, Tuesday

THE WAY TO POLITICAL UNION

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1882 words


Sir, - Chris Gray in "Rogues with clear view of Europe" (Post, Feb 24) is right
to say that the Eurosceptic right, who follow in Enoch Powell's footsteps, are
ridiculed.

They are ridiculed by the mainstream political community of Britain because
their ideas on Europe are flawed to the extreme. Chris Gray is also right to say
that these Eurosceptics, "tend to look at the theory of politics rather than the
practicalities."

The practicalities of EMU, for example, do not lead to political union. The
European Central Bank (ECB) is independent of political authority and the
members of the European System of Central Banks (the Euro zone member states
national central banks), who will consult with the ECB, are also independent of
political interference from their national governments.

Eurosceptics often use the phrase Political Union. Like the phrase, Federal
Europe, they believe that if people are told something is bad without it being
explained, people will come to fear it. They are probably right and Eurosceptics
will never explainwhat they mean by political union.

The European Single Currency will not lead to political union. But political
union, when it does eventually come during the 21st century, I believe, will
change the European Union into a truly democratic institution.

ROBERT COPPINGER

European Movement,

Regional Organiser,

West Midlands.

Public unease over

hospital plans

Sir, - As Chairman of South Birmingham Community Health Council, I write to
comment on the letter signed by fourteen hospital consultants from the
University Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust, and to take strong exception to the
inaccurate remarks of your medical correspondent (Post, Feb 20).

In November, the CHC issued a consultation leaflet asking the public to compare
the Trust's plans for a new hospital with an alternative plan that would involve
gradual development on the existing two hospital sites.

The leaflet was welalanced and presented the advantages and disadvantages of
each option clearly and without prejudice.

Even so, some members of the public said that the leaflet was biased - in favour
of the Trust!

Our consultation has met with a remarkable response. We cannot say how many
leaflets were circulated but a total of 3,373 people responded, providing their
own stamps and envelopes.

Our analysis shows that the overwhelming rejection of the Trust's plans for a
new hospital highlights genuine public concerns.

These should be understood and respected and not dismissed out of hand.

South Birmingham CHC is not dominated by any particular group or political
party. We currently have about 24 members, all unpaid volunteers drawn from all
walks of life. Half of the members are appointed by the local authority to
represent a balance of political interests.

One third of the members are elected by voluntary groups and the rest by the NHS
Regional Office.

We are there to represent the interests of the public in the NHS. We hold
monthly meetings in public that are interesting, informed and well attended. It
is a matter for regret that your reporter is never there.

The CHC notes and understands the consultants' wish for a new, purpose-built
hospital to replace the Queen Elizabeth and Selly Oak Hospitals. However, in
deciding on a new hospital, the Trust has left important issues unaddressed.

For example, in just over three years, the Trust has spent more than pounds 60
million on its capital stock. This includes expenditure on new equipment, up
-grading of wards and on new facilities such as the Accident and Emergency
department, the Neurosciences block and the Oncology unit.

When, in July 1994, the Health Authority chairman, Mr Bryan Stoten, announced
the huge capital programme, he said it was "designed to create modern centres of
excellence to rival advanced acute hospitals anywhere in the world."

The public clearly took his words at face value.

Our survey shows overwhelming concern that a new hospital would waste much of
this capital investment.

A second example is affordability. The Trust is presently struggling to meet the
6 per cent legal rate of return on its capital base of pounds 100 million.

According to the Trust, a new publicly built hospital would be worth twice as
much - around pounds 200 million and capital charges would be expected to
double.

In fact, a new hospital would cost much more than the Trust's estimate because
it would have to be built under the Private Finance Initiative. Costs for rent
and running costs would soar.

The consultants express anxiety that if the PFI proposal is unsuccessful the
money will go elsewhere.

However, it is not at all clear how the Trust could afford such a new hospital.

Hospital budgets are set to plummet. The annual PFI costs would have to be found
at the expense of the budgets for all the other hospitals in Birmingham.

Have the consultants no concern for the likely impact on services elsewhere? Do
they understand that the Trust would not own the new hospital and that all but
the clinical staff would cease to be NHS employees?

Have they no concern over proposed bed cuts and the future quality of patient
care?

We would welcome the opportunity for an exchange of views.

Finally, attempts to smear the CHC as ideological or politically driven may be
designed to weaken our ability to be an effective watchdog but will not remove
the underlying sense of public unease.

URSULA PEARCE

Chair,

South Birmingham CHC.

What a legacy to

leave our children

Sir, - "We want a new hospital, why can't we have a new hospital, other people
have a new hospital, it isn't fair!"

This style is acceptable from a toddler demanding a Teletubbie, but from the
Board of Birmingham University Hospital Trust, and from consultants employed by
the Board, it shows a lack of respect for their responsibility to provide health
care for nearly half the population of the City, including some of the most
deprived people in England.

I was present, as a member of the public, at last Wednesday's meeting of South
Birmingham Community Health Council, and was impressed by the breadth of
representation among over 20 members.

I could tell that the members took very seriously their duty to represent the
patients' point of view, especially the less advantaged.

Surely they did so as conscientiously when Professor Cox was a member?

Some months ago I was a member of a school Governing Body which had to consider
the offer of a Private Finance Initiative for the school, and rejected it.

The long delays before PFI becomes bricks and mortar (at least five years), and
the length of time the contractors' consortium has ownership of the buildings
(60 years), forced a forward looking body to find the proposals unacceptable.

In five years' time, after the next General Election, school and hospital
borrowing may well be no longer part of the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement,
following the example of the other members of the European Union.

A public body can borrow at a lower rate of interest than a private consortium,
and the higher interest payments on a loan to build a hospital can only be taken
from the money for patient care, not just in 2003, but every year until 2063.

As Keynes put it "In the long run we are all dead", but what a legacy to leave
our children and grandchildren.

The Health Authority proposals are wide ranging and largely uncosted, and
included an assumption that Birmingham University Hospital Trust would build a
new hospital on a waste tip containing cadmium, phosphorus, mercury and who
knows what else, with methane escaping from another part of the site.

I found the CHC's response an excellent critique and recommend it to you and all
your readers.

V M MIDDLETON,

Weoley Castle,

Birmingham.

Arranging

the truth

Sir, - Professional historians discussing the media in war time on BBC Radio 4
(Feb 21) agreed that newspapers, radio, and television, are depressingly
inadequate for historical documentation.

A reason given was their belief that there are no longer any really independent
specialist foreign and defence correspondents at their disposal.

Consequently the media simply follows the Government line in international
disputes.

An example the historians gave was the present demonisation of Saddam Hussain.
They pointed out that his name is scarcely mentioned unaccompanied by the
insertion of chemical weapons, torture, etc. All of this is the psychological
preparation of our people for war, to justify our planned air attacks on the
Iraqi people.

It follows, of course, that there are facts which the press will not print in
order to satisfy Government interests. For example, the historians revealed that
in the last Gulf war, in our attacks on Iraq, 200,000 were slaughtered at our
hands. They also reported that so far 350,000 children have died of hunger and
medical shortages from our seven years of sanctions.

These are just two details strangely absent from our press columns.

The Second World War was just another example of the media's arrangements of the
truth to satisfy our Government.

My question is, where does the press's priority lie: with the truth as it can be
established or with nationalism's political expediency?

There should be nothing higher than the integrity of the written word, I feel.
Anything less is, surely, a betrayal of the people. And am I not right in
thinking that people die for these Government-sponsored arrangements of the
"truth"?

HAROLD NASH

Wythall,

Birmingham.

Cruel alternatives

to fox hunting

Sir, - If Mr Leighton Smith (Post, Feb 21) had read my letter carefully he would
have noticed that I have never condoned fox hunting.

Meanwhile Mr Michael Foster's Bill does not in any way protect the fox and is of
course both political and socially motivated, and is only designated to stop fox
hunting but has no mention for the protection of the fox. At least the fox when
hunted, however long the chase, does have a sporting chance which is not the
case with either shooting or gassing, which is even worse.

Perhaps Leighton Smith should ask the 90 odd deer that have already been shot on
the Quantocks which option they would have preferred.

If it had not been for the meddling of the National Trust and the Forestry
Commission under pressure from so-called animal welfare groups and politicians
most of these noble beasts would have still been alive today.

In the circumstances, especially if the digging out of foxes when gone to earth
was totally banned, which certainly is not fair play, then fox hunting is
probably the most efficient and humane method of controlling foxes, at least
they have a chance.

Leighton Smith also mentions, it should be a job, not a sport - it is already
the case with thousands of people associated with the hunt.

In a real caring society we should be giving some thought to these people, and
we have not heard of any consideration or thought of the future of the hounds.

Fox hunting could well be cruel the alternatives for the fox shooting and
gassing could hardly be called an improvement.

KEN UNWIN

Kings Heath,

Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              107 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Mandurah Mail

                                 April 17, 2013

BYLINE: Charli Newton

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 354  words


THE STATE Government inquiry into Peel Health Campus has found no evidence of
fraud or corruption.

The report was released today by inquirer Professor Bryant Stokes after
allegations of fraud were made by hospital ex-executive and whistleblower Ashton
Foley.

It refuted Ms Foley's claim that doctors at the hospital were admitting patients
in order to receive incentive payments.

Professor Stokes wrote the incentive payments only presented 'a conflict of
interest'.

'Many cases of inappropriate admissions were detected ['] but not necessarily
clinically inappropriate,' the report stated.

Professor Stokes named eight areas of mismanagement but stated the hospital's
private operator, Health Solutions WA had fulfilled its contract with the State
Government 'satisfactorily'.

Fierce political debate that has surrounded the takeover of the hospital by
Ramsay Health Care announced last week and Professor Stokes warned that
'competitive or antagonistic rivalry' was not conducive to quality patient care.

He also called for an urgent assessment of the hospital's asset maintenance
register and contractual rules 'to ensure compliance in all aspects of the
management of public patients'.

Shadow Health Minister Roger Cook has already criticised the report for being
predictable and has used the hospital as an example 'of what can go wrong'.

'The report looked at the issues of hospital governance, management, and
staffing issues,' he said.

'However, it did not look at the allegations of political interference, big
political donations to the Liberal Party, and whether Health Solutions behaved
appropriately as a supplier to the WA Government.

'The report supported the Parliamentary committee's concerns about the asset
investment and maintenance processes.

'The report provides an insight into a hospital that was slowly being reined in
by whistleblowers, Parliamentary committees and courageous public servants.'

He said staff had gone relatively ignored in the report proceedings.

'The inquiry found staff were constantly working under stress and that their pay
levels were below that of staff salaries in public hospitals,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Watford Observer

                               May 2, 2014 Friday

Hospital bosses accused of 'hypocrisy' over Ed Miliband visit

BYLINE: Mike Wright

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words


Hospital chiefs have been accused of "hypocrisy" for warning staff about being
political ahead of forthcoming elections just a day after allowing a party
broadcast to be filmed at Watford General.

West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS workers were urged last week "to be sensitive
to the impact of [their] work on the outcome of the elections".

Yet the next day staff received an email from the trust chief executive
detailing the visit of Labour leader, Ed Miliband, footage of which is planned
for a broadcast a week before the European and local elections.

Chief executive Sam Jones

A member of medical staff at Watford General said: "This is completely
hypocritical of the trust management and is also clearly double standards. They
might claim Mr Miliband's visit was outside the so called Purdah but it is going
to be shown right in the middle of it on May 14.

"They are clearly trying to pull the wool over our eyes. Surely the correct
thing to have done would be to have the visit by Mr Miliband and not use
anything involving hospital staff in a party political broadcast weeks later -
especially if you are telling staff that during a set period they must not get
involved In politics as hospital staff.

"I think the trust should remove its agreement for the footage to be shown. That
would be the correct thing to do".

On  Thursday, April 24, staff were sent a round robin email from the trust's
Antony Tiernan, director of corporate affairs and communications, warning about
upcoming Purdah period, which traditionally starts around May 2.

The period relates to statutory advice that local authorities should not publish
anything that "seeks to influence voters" until after the vote.

In his email, Mr Tiernan said: "With this in mind, we will be subject to what is
called 'Purdah'. This is a period of time during which we need to be sensitive
to the impact of our work on the outcome of the elections and the election
campaign.

"'Purdah' applies to our hospitals as well as staff (in their work capacity).
The impact on us is mainly in relation to public announcements, which could be
seen to sway voters, visits by politicians and, generally, not do things which
could bring us into disrepute in relation to political activity."

The next day, the trust's chief executive, Samantha Jones, sent round another
email detailing Ed Miliband's fact-finding visit to two day visit, over Tuesday
April 22 and Wednesday 23, to Watford General.

She added: "We took a number of photos during the event and it was filmed for a
party political broadcast, which is due to aired on May 14."

This week the hospital said Mr Miliband's visit had come before the purdah
period. It also said the purdah advice had been issued to staff to prevent the
getting themselves into a "difficult position".

Antony Tiernan, director of corporate affairs and communications, said: "The NHS
is a non-political organisation and, as such, we must ensure our hospitals -
and, in their professional capacity, our staff - remain impartial.  This is
particularly important during elections and in the period immediately before
voting starts.  This is often called 'purdah' and, for the forthcoming
elections, starts on 2 May (the elections are on 22 May).

"As an organisation we welcome politicians visiting our hospitals so that they
can better understand the work that we do and get to meet, and hear from, our
patients and frontline staff.  We welcome visits from all political parties and
over the last year we have been visited by Jeremy Hunt MP (Conservative -
Secretary of State for Health ) Norman Lamb MP (Liberal Democrat - Minister of
State - Minister of State for Care and Support) and Ed Miliband MP (Labour -
Leader of the Opposition).

"In the run up to elections we issue our staff with advice from the Cabinet
Office which gives guidance on how hospitals and NHS staff should conduct
themselves during the pre-election period ('purdah').  This is to help ensure we
do not impact on the outcome of the elections and to avoid staff being put in a
difficult position."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday

Pakistan: MSBBGH refutes statement of political party

LENGTH: 210  words

DATELINE: QUETTA


QUETTA, March 21 -- The Medical Superintendent of Mohtarma Shaheed

Benazir Bhutto General Hospital Quetta (MSBBGH) refuted a mediate

statement issued by a political party that fire erupted in surgical

ward of the hospital.

A statement issued by MSBBGH management, here on Friday said that no

fire erupted in surgical ward of the hospital.

It said that a political party issued a false and baseless media

statement which published in a section of newspapers that fire erupted in
surgical ward of MSBBGH.

"Some elements want to defame good reputation of the hospital and

they used platform of a political party in this regard," the press

release said.

It added that last year, some rouges subjugated of the hospital

staffer of violence in X-ray room and such elements now are involved in hatching
conspiracies to damage the good reputation of the hospital.

"The incumbent government has awarded certificate to MSBBGH for

good performance in serving patients," it said adding that the hospital
management and the staff would continue serving patients without any
discrimination

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Royal North Shore uses petition to force parliamentary debate on redevelopment

BYLINE: Amy Corderoy HEALTH

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 359 words


STAFF at Royal North Shore Hospital will force the state government to debate
controversial redevelopment plans using a petition of 13,500 signatories. Under
the so-called people's petition pledge made by the Premier, Barry O'Farrell,
petitions signed by 10,000 or more must be debated in Parliament. The medical
staff council at Royal North Shore has collected the petition, which it will
present to the member for Willoughby, Gladys Berejiklian, today.

Under the former Labor government, a $1 billion redevelopment plan for the
hospital was established that provided only 14 additional beds above the number
used when the hospital operates at maximum capacity. The chairman of the staff
council, Tony Joseph, said there was an urgent need for an extra 75 beds to be
added, and to build two further floors on the new hospital building to allow it
to expand. The Minister for Health, Jillian Skinner, promised while in
opposition to develop a campus plan for the hospital that would identify its
needs for now and in the future. But Dr Joseph said the government needed to
change the development plans within a month in order to take advantage of a
crane on top of the new building which is due to be removed in August. "It's
never too late to fix these plans but the earlier they make the decision to put
more medical and surgical beds in, the cheaper it will be," he said. He believed
Mrs Skinner supported the staff council's demands but was not sure whether
Treasury would be willing to commit the additional money. "We understand the
government is under stress and they have been handed a development which is
seriously underfunded," he said. Dr Joseph said the size of the petition showed
the strength of support for the hospital. Signatures were collected by staff
council members and hospital patients. The hospital fundraising group, the Pink
Ladies, which sells toiletries, gifts and newspapers at the hospital, also
supported the petition. The president of the Pink Ladies, Joy Stephen, said the
community was worried the hospital would not have the capacity it needed in
future. "If they don't get the beds, how will they deliver the services?"

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                             March 20, 2015 Friday

MSBBGH refutes statement of political party

LENGTH: 176  words

DATELINE: QUETTA


The Medical Superintendent of Mohtarma Shaheed
Benazir Bhutto General Hospital Quetta (MSBBGH) refuted a mediate
statement issued by a political party that fire erupted in surgical
ward of the hospital.


 A statement issued by MSBBGH management, here on Friday said that no
fire erupted in surgical ward of the hospital.
 It said that a political party issued a false and baseless media
statement which published in a section of newspapers that fire erupted in
surgical ward of MSBBGH.
 "Some elements want to defame good reputation of the hospital and
they used platform of a political party in this regard," the press
release said.
 It added that last year, some rouges subjugated of the hospital
staffer of violence in X-ray room and such elements now are involved in hatching
conspiracies to damage the good reputation of the hospital.
 "The incumbent government has awarded certificate to MSBBGH for
good performance in serving patients," it said adding that the hospital
management and the staff would continue serving patients without any
discrimination.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday

BP cancer hospital ailed by political meddling

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: BHARATPUR


BHARATPUR, Feb. 4 -- BP Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital was established in year
1992 in Bharatpur , Chitwan, to offer effective treatment for the patients
suffering from cancer. The hospital started providing medical services since
1995. The hospital, in its beginning days, was effective with its services.
Patients were receiving hassle-free medical treatment. However, the services
provided by the hospital have deteriorated in the recent years owing to the
increasing political influence. Appointing employees on basis of their political
affiliation and unhealthy rivalry between employees affiliated to different
parties, among others, have affected the hospital services.

Patients from both inside and outside, including India and Bangladesh, visit the
hospital to receive medial treatment. But they are deprived of timely service.
As a result, they are compelled to stay in hotels, waiting for their turn. Only
those who have political affiliations are given prompt treatment. Because of all
these problems, most of the patients who come to the hospital are compelled to
return without receiving treatment. Though there have been efforts to reform the
hospital, there has not been any progress so far.

The hospital was set up with the help of the Chinese government to provide
inexpensive and accessible service to cancer patients.

"The hospital was doing fine in the initial years," says Chairman of Cancer Sewa
Samaj Shyam Lamichhane. "The downfall started when politics entered the
hospital."

There are nearly 600 employees working in the hospital; more than 22 million is
spent on their salaries every year. While more than 100,000 patients visit the
hospital every year, the service it offers is dismal. Most of the times,
patients check out from the hospital without being treated, or are referred to
private hospitals. "The medical equipment have also not been upgraded," says
Prakash Pandey, chief of the bio-medical engineering department at the hospital.
What was once considered as one of the most modern cancer treatment facilities
in the country is turning into a dysfunctional, outdated health institute that
needs saving.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Kerryman (Ireland)

                                November 3, 2010

FURY AT TD'S HOSPITAL LETTER

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 571 words


Deputy Browne was responding to a recent Borough Council motion calling on
Wexford Fianna Fáil TDs to resign if they didn't vote against threatened
Government cutbacks at the hospital. The motion was later amended to include all
local TDs.

Deputy Browne sent a letter saying he was sure, 'as usual, this was a Sinn
Féin/Labour Party politically motivated motion, as they have been using the
patients of Wexford Hospital for a number of years now for political motives'.

The letter continued: 'I will work to ensure Wexford hospital is at the
forefront of health services in Wexford for many years to come and I certainly
don't need advice from political groups that play politics with the sick.'

At a council meeting on Monday night, Cllr George Lawlor (Labour) said it was an
' astonishing letter' and the ' greatest insult' to the Borough Council.

'It's horrendous. We are the elected body to represent the people of Wexford. If
we can't pass a motion without ridiculous criticism from an amateurish
politician...' he said.

Cllr Lawlor said he thought Deputy Browne must be suffering from paranoia if he
thought this was a joint Labour-Sinn Féin motion.

There was a burst of laughter when Cllr Anthony Kelly interjected to point out
that this was a 'genuine Sinn Féin' motion.

Cllr Kelly said he resented that his party was being accused of using Wexford
hospital as a political football. When Deputy Browne took part in a hospital
protest himself, was he doing the same then, he wanted to know.

Cllr Philomena Roche (Fine Gael) said she was sure that when the Fianna Fáil TD
re-read the letter, he would be very embarrassed for 'insulting this council'.

Cllr David Hynes found the reference to 'political groups' objectionable as the
Wexford Hospital Community Alliance was non-political and included people such
as Fr Jim Fegan and Dr Paddy McKiernan. 'John is coming out these days with all
sorts of statements. He is only letting himself down,' he said.

Cllr Fergie Kehoe (Fianna Fáil) said he believed the motion was politically
motivated.

'If I was a sitting TD I would have taken offence with anyone asking me to
resign,' he said.

'I feel Deputies Browne and Connick did take a hard goingover that night. I said
that night and I'll say it again, Wexford hospital will not be closed and the
A&E will remain for the length of this Government. It will be the next
Government that will close the hospital. The chickens will come home to roost.'

Cllr Ted Howlin (Labour) said it was a pity that John Browne had sullied the
issue: 'It's him who is being political.'

Cllr Padge Reck (Independent) said he saw the 'funny side' of the letter. 'Look
at The Week In Politics or Day In The Dáil and you'll hear worse. Anyone who
takes that as an insult must have a serious problem.

'You know John Browne, that's the way he behaves and that's the way he carries
on,' he said.

Cllr Paddy Nolan (Fianna Fáil) said he was aware of all the work Deputy Browne
had done for the hospital: ' To me, that letter means nothing.'

Cllr Jim Allen (Fine Gael) took offence to the remark about the next Government
closing the hospital. ' The hospital will not be closed by Fine Gael,' he said.

The mayor, Cllr Joe Ryan (Labour), recalled an occasion when Deputy Browne's
'sense of humour' backfired on him and he believed it was going to backfire on
him again. 'I don't think Deputy Browne's comments are in anyway helpful to this
campaign,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            September 9, 2013 Monday

Public health in crisis: Doctors reduced to pawns in a game of power politics

LENGTH: 808  words


Doctors of the Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) are working under constant stress
after having been repeatedly harassed at the hands of attendants visiting the
hospital's emergency wing with injured political workers. The law-enforcement
personnel and private security guards also seem ineffectual in their duty to
curtail such untoward incidents.

The Civil hospital is the one of the biggest public sector hospitals in the
city, where thousands of patients from parts of the city and rural areas of
Sindh and Balochistan visit regularly. The medical staff, however, faces
constant threats when dealing with patients related to any Karachi-based
political party.

The hospital has two entry and two exit routes - the main gate to emergency from
MA Jinnah Road and the other from Mission Road.

Police pickets and the private security system fail to provide protection to the
patients and the hospital's employees as doctors and medical staff are
intimidated time and again by attendants.

"Police can't interfere when doctors are being threatened or tortured," said a
medical officer on the condition of anonymity. "The hospital's security staff is
not fully trained to counter such a situation."

The staff and female doctors are afraid of dealing with emergency cases and
avoid entering operation theatres. In a recent episode, some gunmen entered the
operation theatre where a bullet-riddled person affiliated with a religious
party was being operated on. "Two lady doctors sought cover under the operation
table," a doctor told The Express Tribune.

The staff is also afraid of reporting such incidents as different employees are
affiliated with different parties. "If we resist or register a complaint against
them, they could harm us easily because the employees know each other well,"
said another senior doctor.

Interestingly, a visitor can easily see union offices of employees affiliated
with political parties, while the wards and corridors of different departments
also speak a lot about the political connection of unions' leaders.

"The staff members having political links work openly. What is worse is that
doctors and even patients are asked to pay extortion money within the hospital's
premises," senior doctors told to The Express Tribune. "Mafias rule here, and
doctors have to obey their orders."

According to the hospital's records, the ratio of junior female doctors in the
CHK is higher than their male counterparts. "It's almost 85 per cent," said a
doctor. A junior lady doctor said that her colleagues didn't want to perform any
duty after the morning shift because the attitude of attendants was very harsh,
adding that neither the doctors nor the other staff could work in such a
situation. "It affects the overall performance because it is a sensitive job and
a doctor can't work under threats."

Most of the doctors enter emergencies and operation theatres without the white
coat and medical tools, she said.

According to the hospital's record, the number of out-door patients is around
2,000 daily, while 5,000 to 7,000 patients visit the CHK's different departments
regularly. The patients without political affiliation, however, suffer the most.

In August 2012, the Sindh government had ensured of providing the administration
with foolproof security within three months after a senior doctor, Associate
Prof. Umairul Islam, was beaten up within the hospital premises. Ironically,
nothing has been done so far and senior police officials were unable to comment
on the security arrangements.

Another doctor said that his female counterpart was threatened in the OPD by a
female attendant last week. "The attendant had demanded that the doctor see her
patient before anyone else or she would blow up the place," he added. "I know
just one thing that Tange wala khair mangda - I have to survive here."

The other side

Sources from provincial health department informed The Express Tribune that four
letters for security arrangements had been sent to home departments, adding that
no measures have been taken so far.

On the other hand, Health Deputy Secretary Imdad Shah said that the CHK was
being provided funds for its private security arrangements, adding that the
provincial health minister, Owais Muzaffar, had also asked the home department
to address the security lapse. "He has also directed authorities to remove
encroachments around the hospital."

The CHK Medical Superintendent Prof. M Saeed Quraishy shared that he was not
satisfied with the security arrangements. He said that due to the inefficiency
of the current security company, they were looking for a new one.

Prof. Quraishy informed that despite direction of the health minister and other
top officials, proper security measures weren't taken. "I think it is under
process and may take some time," he justified.

DIG South Dr Ameer Shaikh was unavailable for comment when contacted.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday
                           All-round Country Edition

Rudd targets PM's hospital 'excuse' - ELECTION COUNTDOWN

BYLINE: Matthew Franklin, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 535  words


KEVIN Rudd has accused John Howard of deliberately relying on political
differences with Labor state governments as an excuse to do nothing to improve
health services.

The Opposition Leader claims the Prime Minister -- who wants voters to re-elect
him as a counter-balance to the existence of Labor governments in all states and
territories -- uses the political colour of state governments as ''a political
excuse'' for failure.

Mr Rudd made the comments in Sydney yesterday, a day after announcing that a
Labor government would spend $2 billion on incentives payments for state
governments in return for improved efficiency in public hospitals.

If they failed to lift standards in accordance with agreed benchmarks by the
middle of 2009, he said he would hold a referendum for a commonwealth takeover
of state public hospitals.

Yesterday, as Health Minister Tony Abbott branded the Labor leader a fake who
relied on smoke and mirrors, Mr Rudd attempted to use the health issue to
neutralise Mr Howard's theme of the need to avoid having Labor in power at all
levels of government.

''It might suit Mr Howard's political agenda to be able to blame the states, but
if a federal Labor government is elected under myself as prime minister, we will
then have no political excuse whatsoever for not rolling up our sleeves and
fixing the system,'' Mr Rudd said.

''Mr Howard prefers to have a political excuse for not fixing the system. Let's
actually deal with the problem.''

Mr Rudd also attacked Mr Howard's decision to commit $45million a year to fund a
community-based takeover of Devonport's Mersey hospital. The hospital is in the
marginal federal electorate of Braddon.

''Mr Howard has a plan for one hospital out of 750 hospitals in the country,''
Mr Rudd said. ''We have a reform plan for all of Australia's 750 public
hospitals.

While Mr Rudd was at Canterbury Hospital, a group from the Sefton Playhouse
strip club turned up with a billboard promoting a ''Kevin look-alike'' contest
last night. The competition -- which capitalises on Mr Rudd's visit four years
ago to a New York strip club -- carries a $500 first prize.

Mr Abbott, also in Sydney, said the Rudd hospital plan included little more than
the creation of a new bureaucracy and promises of what might happen in the
future.

''There's something for everyone and in the end, nothing for anyone,'' he said.
''There is much less to this than really meets the eye, which is why it is
typical of the kinds of smoke and mirrors we get from this man.''

Acting NSW Health Minister John Hatzistergos said the setting of benchmarks
under the Rudd plan should be a two-way street.

He said many families used hospital emergency rooms for non-urgent conditions
because they could not find bulk-billing general practitioners because of a
shortage of doctors caused by the Howard Government.

''I'm now calling for benchmarking of commonwealth-funded services, including
availability of local GPs and bulk-billing rates, dental services for low-income
families and access to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme,'' Mr Hatzistergos
said.

His call came as new figures showed that the level of bulk-billing by GPs
increased by 0.8percentage points to 78.2 per cent in the June quarter.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Wexford People (Ireland)

                                November 3, 2010

FURY AT TD'S HOSPITAL LETTER

SECTION:

LENGTH: 571 words


Deputy Browne was responding to a recent Borough Council motion calling on
Wexford Fianna Fáil TDs to resign if they didn't vote against threatened
Government cutbacks at the hospital. The motion was later amended to include all
local TDs.

Deputy Browne sent a letter saying he was sure, 'as usual, this was a Sinn
Féin/Labour Party politically motivated motion, as they have been using the
patients of Wexford Hospital for a number of years now for political motives'.

The letter continued: 'I will work to ensure Wexford hospital is at the
forefront of health services in Wexford for many years to come and I certainly
don't need advice from political groups that play politics with the sick.'

At a council meeting on Monday night, Cllr George Lawlor (Labour) said it was an
' astonishing letter' and the ' greatest insult' to the Borough Council.

'It's horrendous. We are the elected body to represent the people of Wexford. If
we can't pass a motion without ridiculous criticism from an amateurish
politician...' he said.

Cllr Lawlor said he thought Deputy Browne must be suffering from paranoia if he
thought this was a joint Labour-Sinn Féin motion.

There was a burst of laughter when Cllr Anthony Kelly interjected to point out
that this was a 'genuine Sinn Féin' motion.

Cllr Kelly said he resented that his party was being accused of using Wexford
hospital as a political football. When Deputy Browne took part in a hospital
protest himself, was he doing the same then, he wanted to know.

Cllr Philomena Roche (Fine Gael) said she was sure that when the Fianna Fáil TD
re-read the letter, he would be very embarrassed for 'insulting this council'.

Cllr David Hynes found the reference to 'political groups' objectionable as the
Wexford Hospital Community Alliance was non-political and included people such
as Fr Jim Fegan and Dr Paddy McKiernan. 'John is coming out these days with all
sorts of statements. He is only letting himself down,' he said.

Cllr Fergie Kehoe (Fianna Fáil) said he believed the motion was politically
motivated.

'If I was a sitting TD I would have taken offence with anyone asking me to
resign,' he said.

'I feel Deputies Browne and Connick did take a hard goingover that night. I said
that night and I'll say it again, Wexford hospital will not be closed and the
A&E will remain for the length of this Government. It will be the next
Government that will close the hospital. The chickens will come home to roost.'

Cllr Ted Howlin (Labour) said it was a pity that John Browne had sullied the
issue: 'It's him who is being political.'

Cllr Padge Reck (Independent) said he saw the 'funny side' of the letter. 'Look
at The Week In Politics or Day In The Dáil and you'll hear worse. Anyone who
takes that as an insult must have a serious problem.

'You know John Browne, that's the way he behaves and that's the way he carries
on,' he said.

Cllr Paddy Nolan (Fianna Fáil) said he was aware of all the work Deputy Browne
had done for the hospital: ' To me, that letter means nothing.'

Cllr Jim Allen (Fine Gael) took offence to the remark about the next Government
closing the hospital. ' The hospital will not be closed by Fine Gael,' he said.

The mayor, Cllr Joe Ryan (Labour), recalled an occasion when Deputy Browne's
'sense of humour' backfired on him and he believed it was going to backfire on
him again. 'I don't think Deputy Browne's comments are in anyway helpful to this
campaign,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Cyprus Mail

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

NHS is for the benefit of the people, not the staff, minister says

LENGTH: 634 words


The overhaul of the public health sector is for the benefit of the people and
not health professionals, and political parties must support this, Health
Minister Giorgos Pamboridis said on Thursday.

In his assessment of his first year in office Pamboridis told the Cyprus News
Agency in an interview that he believes it was mostly positive as his task was
to oversee the reform of the health sector. His first year anniversary as health
minister was July 27.

"I had the opportunity a few days earlier, on July 21, for the political leaders
to approve during their meeting with the president our plans, which we arduously
prepared," Pamboridis said.

Those plans, he said, included "all those elements necessary to structurally
change everything in the health sector".

He added that the bills concerning all that needs to be done for the
implementation of the National Health Scheme (NHS) will be tabled to parliament
soon, but that this could not be done without everyone's help.

By June 2017 a public organisation will be set up which will oversee hospital
autonomy, while by June 2019 outpatient care will be introduced. The ultimate
date for the full implementation of the NHS is June 1, 2020.

"Political parties must honestly decide what exactly they want as regards health
reform and speak to the patients, doctors and nurses in one voice instead of
caressing their ears... telling interested parties what they want to hear,"
Pamboridis said.

He added that he is certain this is what happens when each group meets with
representatives of political leaders. Instead of telling patients and healthcare
professionals "these are the decisions that have been taken", parties tell them
what they want to hear, Pamboridis said.

"It is a vital sector. People do not receive the services they are entitled to
from a European state. This reform cannot be made without everyone's help and no
party is contributing to this when they act in such a way," he said. "The die is
cast. The reform has been formulated," he said.

"If political parties want to caress the ears of the rest, let them come and say
that before the parliament".

As regards the problems health professionals face in state hospitals, Pamboridis
said that there is a gap between now and the date when hospital autonomy will be
in effect.

"It is very important to focus on this period until hospital autonomy to see the
everyday problems healthcare professionals face," he said. His ministry, he
said, in cooperation with state hospital staff and their unions are seeking to
find alternative solutions until autonomy kicks in.

The administrative and financial autonomy of state hospitals aims to change
everything in the health sector "to diminish the roots of problems".

"Therefore, it is foolish for anyone to believe that we shouldn't address the
everyday issues healthcare professionals but mainly patients face. This struggle
is not for the healthcare professionals. The struggle is for patients, but
health professionals will also benefit," Pamboridis said.

He added that the aim was the improvement of the quality of services patients
receive and that through that goal the second one would have to be achieved
which is the improvement of work conditions of state hospital staff.

A new healthcare system will also diminish patient waiting lists, he said.
Despite that the problem of long waiting lists was "alleviated to a great
extent" through the scheme launched earlier in the year to refer state hospital
patients to the private sector, he said, the problem is not resolved and the
reason, "is precisely because the roots that cause problems are embedded into
the outdated system we have today".

The post NHS is for the benefit of the people, not the staff, minister says
appeared first on Cyprus Mail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/33/147515797373.jpg



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 70


               Copyright 2016 Cyprus Mail - Cyprus Mail Co. Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                            February 8, 2016 Monday

Stormont parties must agree pact on hospital reform

LENGTH: 344  words


One of Stormont's biggest failures has been the refusal to get to grips with
health reform.

It is almost 16 years since Bairbre de Brun, the health minister in 2000,
ordered a review of acute hospital services. The following year that review, the
Hayes Report, recommended six hospitals with maternity care and inpatient
maternity services.

Studies since have reached similar conclusions. A range of big names, from the
tycoon Gerry Robinson to the ex chief medical officer of England Sir Liam
Donaldson, have called for reform to be implemented, yet little has been done
about it.

The problem is simple. All political parties privately agree that current
hospital provision is too expensive and inefficient. Yet not one of them is
prepared to break ranks.

Every time a minor hospital is rightly marked for closure (in order to
concentrate funds in a smaller number of world class hospitals), there is public
uproar. The main political parties then attend rallies in support of keeping
open the hospital that they all agree should close.

This is political cowardice on a grand scale. But shrinking from difficult
decisions is not unique to Stormont. In Great Britain, health reform is so
politically toxic that even the Conservatives felt the need to pledge to ring
fence NHS spending.

In Manchester, however, the two main parties - Labour and the Tories - have
signed up to a set of principles that will include reducing the number of
emergency departments in the city (which will take control of its own health
budget in April) from 10 to four. Ian Williamson, the chief officer of Greater
Manchester Health and Social Care Devolution, said Northern Ireland politicians
should agree something similar.

Stormont's current health minister Simon Hamilton has also been calling for
consensus. It is a pity that no political party had the courage to spell out to
the public what needs to be done. But if the parties can agree a united front
between themselves, the Province will at last begin to get more value for its
health spending per pound than is currently the case.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                October 16, 1997, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Hospital president touts benefits of privatization

BYLINE: KATHERINE GAZELLA

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Tampa General Hospital president Bruce Siegel on Wednesday brought to the
nation's capital his mantra that privatization is the best path for many  public
hospitals.

At a forum on the future of public hospitals, Siegel outlined the problems  TGH
and other public hospitals have faced.

He said earlier this year, before he presented his plan to privatize TGH,  the
hospital faced insurmountable financial troubles.

"We were heading toward a meltdown," Siegel said.

Among the problems was a lack of financial support from local governments.  Add
to that the problem of people who did not want to do business with a  public
hospital because it is subject to public records laws, and there was  little
incentive to remain public, Siegel said.

Had the decision to go private not been made, he said, "we were heading  into
severe difficulty very quickly."

A private governing board assumed control of the hospital last week.

Other speakers at the forum who head up public hospitals agreed that
privatization is the best path.

"I don't think there are any advantages to staying public," said John A.
Fairman of D.C. General Hospital in Washington.

The forum was sponsored by the Joint Center for Political and Economic  Studies
and the Commonwealth Fund.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Bruce Siegel

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              120 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday

Political football

BYLINE: Public Forum Letter

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; Opinion

LENGTH: 148 words


The news media have jumped all over the Walter Reed Hospital in Virginia these
past weeks because of several incidents concerning the treatment of returning
vets from Iraq.

Your March 9 political cartoon was an obnoxious display of anti-administration
(Bush bashing). The Veterans Affairs hospitals across the country seem to be
getting the brunt of these so-called "mistreatments" of our veterans.

I am a disabled veteran and have received excellent treatment here at the Salt
Lake VA Hospital as well as VA hospitals in New York City and Chicago. The VA
hospital system was considered the top hospital system in the country within the
past six months. This is a good tribute to our government taking care of its
veterans.

I feel the Walter Reed incident has become a political football for the news
media and the Democratic Party. Shame on this type of reporting.

Jim Dublinski

Salt Lake City

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 24, 1997 Thursday

Hospital closings could harm Tories  POLITICAL RISK / Health care ranks behind
only jobs and the economy among voter concerns in Ontario. That is especially
true for women, whom the Conservatives have been trying to woo.

BYLINE: BY RICHARD MACKIE Queen's Park Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: Toronto


TWO areas in which Ontario's Progressive Conservative government is most
vulnerable politically intersect with the decision to close hospitals,
especially the decision to close Women's College Hospital despite strong
opposition.

As a result, the decision announced yesterday by the Health Services
Restructuring Commission to close 11 of Metro Toronto's hospitals carries major
political risks for the government.

The Progressive Conservatives find it far harder to win votes among women than
among men. Supporters of Women's College Hospital say closing it would indicate
a lack of sympathy for women's health needs.

And the future of health care in the province ranks behind only jobs and the
economy among voter concerns. Closing hospitals is seen by many as an assault on
health care, even though the government says the money it saves will be spent on
other aspects of health care.

Compounding the problem for the Conservatives is the fact that women tend to be
even more concerned about health care than men, according to recent political
surveys and focus groups. As a consequence, closing hospitals could further
damage the party's attempts to gain women's support.

Premier Mike Harris acknowledged his party's difficulties in appealing to women
voters yesterday in discussing the potential political fallout from the hospital
closings.

So far, 25 hospitals have been ordered to close in six communities across the
province.

Adding to Mr. Harris's woes is the fact that the man speaking for the government
on the subject is Health Minister Jim Wilson. Several of Mr. Harris's advisers
are unhappy with his performance and have urged the Premier to replace him as
soon as a major cabinet shuffle can be arranged, possibly this fall or early in
the new year.

The gender gap is a striking feature of the province's political landscape.

An Environics Research Group survey in April found that 36 per cent of women
said they would vote Liberal while 24 per cent would back the Conservatives.
Among men, 31 per cent would vote Liberal while 36 per cent would opt for the
Conservatives. The rest would support New Democrats or other parties, or were
undecided.

An Angus Reid Group Inc. survey in June found that among decided voters, 43 per
cent of women would vote Liberal, while 27 per cent would back the Tories, 19
per cent supported the New Democrats and 11 per cent would opt for another
party.

Among decided male voters, 50 per cent supported the Conservatives, 29 per cent
picked the Liberals, 13 per cent backed the New Democrats and 8 per cent
favoured another party.

Both groups found support for the two parties quite close.

Mr. Harris said he is hoping to persuade women that his government is working to
help them.

"More women are working, more women are getting jobs, more women are breaking
the cycle of [welfare] dependency," he said at Queen's Park yesterday.

Closing Women's College Hospital is not an assault on women's health care, he
argued.

"There will be a number of specialists who would say that the facilities at
Sunnybrook [Health Science Centre] will be far better, will be able to treat
women far better, that women's health care is not dependent upon a dingy old
building, that is rather old, in downtown Toronto."

He also complained about the lack of action in shutting hospitals by the
Conservative government under former premier William Davis as well as under the
New Democrats and Liberals who governed for the past 10 years.

"I don't think anybody can legitimately say we're not doing what needs to be
done and what they didn't have the courage to do for 15 years or so, while other
provinces did. That made the challenge more difficult."

Similarly, Mr. Wilson tried to argue yesterday that merging Women's College
Hospital into a new institution based around the Sunnybrook centre will benefit,
not curtail, health care for women. Voters will see this by the time of the next
election, he predicted.

"It's early days yet. . . . It'll be over the next two years when . . . you're
going to have unprecedented modern renovations to the hospitals that remain in
the city."

But Isabel Bassett, the Conservative MPP for the downtown Toronto riding of St.
Andrews-St. Patrick, which is served by Women's College Hospital, acknowledged
the political problems created by the closing.

"Is it politically touchy? Of course," said Ms. Bassett, a long-time supporter
of the hospital who has worked closely with the chairwoman of the hospital,
prominent Conservative lawyer Jane Pepino.

Ms. Bassett said the government must stress that they are trying to improve the
system of women's health care. "If we don't sell that message, then naturally
people will remain convinced that we're not trying to help women."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1997 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                  February 21, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Watch for political fallout form hospital wars

BYLINE: By Jim Maclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 800 words


   Hardball, nomination-meeting-style political battles have arrived in
Ontario's hospital system and it's likely that the "wars" have just begun.

The battle of most recent note ended on Jan. 24 with the resignations of the
majority of the board members of Toronto's Women's College Hospital, just hours
before a meeting staged by a well-organized and well-financed lobby group, "The
Friends." The meeting had been called to vote out certain board members: Sixteen
of them quit rather than continue a divisive public conflict which had split the
hospital.

The immediate issue, now resolved in favor of the "Friends," was whether the
smaller Women's College would merge with the much larger Toronto Hospital or
whether it would remain independent. But there are far wider questions raised by
these events that could have an impact:

* On the future of volunteer boards in Ontario hospitals;

* On the climate in which the next provincial election will be fought;

* On the government's promised rewriting of the Public Hospitals Act;

* And, on who manages health care in Ontario.

By resigning, the members of the Women's College board tossed the issue of
hospital management straight into Queen's Park's lap. That's potentially
troublesome politically, because it means that volunteer hospital boards with no
vested interests are not immune to removal by well-organized, single-issue
lobbies who want to take hospital management into their own hands for whatever
reason.

The future role of volunteer boards was thrown into further doubt by the Supreme
Court of Ontario ruling of Jan. 23. Its effect was to prove that a single-issue
pressure group had both the moral authority and the legal ability to oust a duly
constituted hospital board whose members believed they had been acting in the
best interests of the hospital, and in accordance with the wishes of the
provincial government.

People on hospital boards do not get paid for their time as board members. Will
such individuals have the stomach to cover their "political" bases now that
organized outside groups can remove them?

Hospital boards can sometimes be useful buffers between the government and the
many interest groups that interact and jockey for position, power and money in
the health care industry. When those "buffers" are removed or leave, the
government itself can easily become the target.

It's quite possible that the political heat on Queen's Park will soon be cranked
up to rolling-boil levels by the "Friends of Women's College" now on the
re-constituted hospital board. They may try to convince the government that it's
wiser to bail out the financially troubled hospital than face the political
consequences of allowing it to go into inexorable decline.

To understand why the Women's College battle may only be the first of many
similar set-tos around the province, it must be remembered that Ontario's 223
public hospitals are in fact private, non-profit corporations, subject to the
Public Hospitals Act, an act which the current Minister of Health has often said
is outdated and needs redrafting.

The province does not run, i.e., manage, Ontario's hospitals. It merely funds
their operations under a system that allows the independent hospital boards to
decide how to spend the money allocated. But Queen's Park (regardless of the
party in power) is always blamed whenever real or perceived problems in the
hospital system crop up, and a case could be made that he who pays the hospital
pipers should be calling the tune.

The departure of the previous Women's College board may hasten provincial
government thinking in that direction. We will know when the rewritten Public
Hospital Act surfaces.

Methods of making hospital boards directly accountable to Queen's Park might
arguably be seen as a way to reassure the public that things are under control
in the highly charged arena of hospitals and health care.

So instead of 223 hospitals all acting independently, all competing, and all
subject to potentially disruptive local power struggles, we could end up with a
sort of "Hospital Ontario Inc.," a collection of 223 branch plants all reporting
directly to head office at Queen's Park.

So the salvos fired in the Women's College Hospital dispute are just the
beginning of a larger power struggle. It is a struggle that will pit the payer
(the government) against the many players in the hospital system, some of whom
have the best interests of the patient at heart, some of whom don't, and all of
whom can create political trouble for any government.

* Jim Maclean was Communications Adviser to Health Minister Elinor Caplan
between December, 1987 and December, 1989. He is now vice-president of Media
Profile, a Toronto communications consultancy.hospital; merger

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              123 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily Balochistan Express

                           February 22, 2014 Saturday

Agency Headquarter Hospital Landikotal remained closed- patients faced
difficulties

LENGTH: 437  words


Agency Headquarter Hospital administration staff on Thursday closed the OPD in
protest against the rude behaviour of Political Administration and threatened if
the matter was not solved till Saturday they will boycott taking part in
anti-polio campaign in the area.

A large number of patients on Thursday returned homes without being treated and
examined in Agency Headquarter Hospital Landikotal. The protest was jointly
carried out by Khyber Agency Paramedical Association and Doctors Association.

The demonstration was led by president (KPA) Abdul Haleem Afridi told media that
few days back, officials of hospital had raised voice regarding the problems
being faced by them. He alleged and saying the officials of political
administration conducted raid of the hospital and also broke the lock of account
section.

APA Landikotal when contacted for his comments saying that they had conducted
raid few days back and found 29 doctors absent out of 35 doctors in hospital.
About the administration, APA said it had right to conduct raids over other
departments.

Another official of hospital administration said the Medical Superintendent,
Rauf Wazir left the office in a protest after Political Tehsildar Landikotal
Daftar Khan and MNA, Alhaj Shahjee Gul Afridi had raided the hospital on 15
February, and broke the lock of account section.

After some days, political tehsildar again visited the MS, Rauf Wazir office and
exchanged harsh words with him, he explained. MS Rauf Wazir, who left the office
in protest against the rude attitude of political tehsildar also did not conduct
round visits of patient wards in last two days, official informed.

One of the patients, Rehmatullah Afridi of Zakhakhel while talking to local
journalists said he had come to Landikotal hospital from way off area in order
make his kid treated here, who is suffering from typhoid. He expressed
displeasure over the closure of hospital saying that they had no concern with
clashes among administration and hospital officials. He demanded the ending of
inhuman attitude of hospital and administration officials with patients.

Hospital demonstrators threatened if the matter was not solved till the coming
Saturday, they will boycott joining upcoming an anti-polio drive.

During the demonstration, the emergency and labour room had remained opened for
patients.

Later, on the interruption of Jirga members, the protest was suspended
temporarily after being ensured to bring back the MS to rejoin his position in
hospital. Malik Nadeem Afridi, Malik Abdullah Khan and Wali Mohammad Afridi were
among the Jirga members of MNA Alhaj Shahjee Gul Afridi.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Daily Balochistan Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                           February 22, 2014 Saturday

Agency Headquarter Hospital Landikotal remained closed- patients faced
difficulties

SECTION: Vol. 19 No. 52

LENGTH: 437  words


Agency Headquarter Hospital administration staff on Thursday closed the OPD in
protest against the rude behaviour of Political Administration and threatened if
the matter was not solved till Saturday they will boycott taking part in
anti-polio campaign in the area.

A large number of patients on Thursday returned homes without being treated and
examined in Agency Headquarter Hospital Landikotal. The protest was jointly
carried out by Khyber Agency Paramedical Association and Doctors Association.

The demonstration was led by president (KPA) Abdul Haleem Afridi told media that
few days back, officials of hospital had raised voice regarding the problems
being faced by them. He alleged and saying the officials of political
administration conducted raid of the hospital and also broke the lock of account
section.

APA Landikotal when contacted for his comments saying that they had conducted
raid few days back and found 29 doctors absent out of 35 doctors in hospital.
About the administration, APA said it had right to conduct raids over other
departments.

Another official of hospital administration said the Medical Superintendent,
Rauf Wazir left the office in a protest after Political Tehsildar Landikotal
Daftar Khan and MNA, Alhaj Shahjee Gul Afridi had raided the hospital on 15
February, and broke the lock of account section.

After some days, political tehsildar again visited the MS, Rauf Wazir office and
exchanged harsh words with him, he explained. MS Rauf Wazir, who left the office
in protest against the rude attitude of political tehsildar also did not conduct
round visits of patient wards in last two days, official informed.

One of the patients, Rehmatullah Afridi of Zakhakhel while talking to local
journalists said he had come to Landikotal hospital from way off area in order
make his kid treated here, who is suffering from typhoid. He expressed
displeasure over the closure of hospital saying that they had no concern with
clashes among administration and hospital officials. He demanded the ending of
inhuman attitude of hospital and administration officials with patients.

Hospital demonstrators threatened if the matter was not solved till the coming
Saturday, they will boycott joining upcoming an anti-polio drive.

During the demonstration, the emergency and labour room had remained opened for
patients.

Later, on the interruption of Jirga members, the protest was suspended
temporarily after being ensured to bring back the MS to rejoin his position in
hospital. Malik Nadeem Afridi, Malik Abdullah Khan and Wali Mohammad Afridi were
among the Jirga members of MNA Alhaj Shahjee Gul Afridi.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                      May 22, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Mega-hospital keeps ex-separatist: Trustees apologize for furore but stick with
chosen leader

BYLINE: THE CANADIAN PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A former separatist appointed to head Ottawa's new mega-hospital will keep his
job, despite an explosion of controversy over his political beliefs that has
inflamed the national unity debate.

The hospital board issued a statement Thursday apologizing for not being
prepared for the fallout with its appointment of David Levine. It's decision to
support Levine was unanimous.

"Mr. Levine's hiring has caused a reaction amongst some members of our community
that clearly we did not fully appreciate," said Nick Mulder, chairman of the
hospital's board of trustees.

"We apologize to the community for inadvertently opening wounds on the serious
issue of national unity."

Levine, a bilingual anglophone from Quebec, ran for the Parti Quebecois almost
20 years ago, saying he wanted to build a bridge between the English and the
French communities.

Levine said late last week he has no political agenda. He said he is an
experienced hospital manager who had a long and distinguished career in Quebec
before his appointment last year as the province's envoy to New York.

He noted he worked in Quebec's hospital system under PQ and Liberal governments
and politics has never been an issue in his work.

But the hospital has received hundreds of calls, some from donors threatening to
stop sending money. Others describe the furore as a witch-hunt that smacks of
the McCarthyism of the 1950s in the U.S., where suspected communists were
rounded up and blacklisted.

Mulder said the board continues to believe Levine is the best qualified person
for the job and said the hospital will not discriminate against Levine on the
basis of his political beliefs.

But Mulder also acknowledged that the concerns of the community must be
addressed. Levine's performance will be regularly evaluated and he will not be
able to use his position to advance any political views.

The hospital's volunteer board had to weigh the public opposition to Levine
keeping his $ 300,000-a-year job against their contention that his experience
makes him the best person for the job.

The board has tried to dispel concerns among staff that Levine would eventually
limit jobs to bilinguals.

Prime Minister Jean Chretien has said Levine's political inclinations do not
affect his ability to serve.

But Bloc Quebecois Leader Gilles Duceppe has said the outcry "means Canada is no
longer a tolerant society."


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                     May 16, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

'Let's get on with the job': New hospital chief refuses to reveal stance on
separation

BYLINE: MARIA BOHUSLAWSKY; WITH FILES FROM DAWN WALTON; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / Front


Calling himself a "bridge-builder" between local francophones and

anglophones, David Levine refused yesterday to say whether he was a separatist,
and begged to be judged on his abilities as a hospital administrator.

"David Levine has no political agenda here," he told a packed news conference.
"I'm a democrat and I support the aspirations of the people of Quebec to
determine their own future in a clear, open and democratic manner. OK? That's a
clear statement on my part."

Mr. Levine, the incoming president of the amalgamated Ottawa Hospital, and
members of the hospital board that hired him had called a press conference
yesterday to address widespread concerns about his appointment.

Mr. Levine, a 49-year-old hospital administrator, was a member of the separatist
Parti Quebecois from 1975 to 1981. He was the party's candidate in a 1979
byelection, which he lost.

"I'm not here as a politician," he said. "I'm a public servant. The people of
Ottawa will never be confronted by me or my actions in a political way. The only
thing I can say is, 'Wait and see.' Look at the performance. If six months down
the road, you're not pleased with the services you're getting, do something
about it.

"I see myself really as a bridge-builder and I want to build bridges between the
anglophone and francophone community in Ottawa," he added. "This is a wonderful
opportunity to show that the two founding nations of Canada can work together.
Let's just get on with the job."

For the past year, he has been serving as the delegate general of Quebec
Government House in New York City, where his job has been to foster trade
between the province and the United States. He was appointed by Quebec for the
position.

He starts his $ 330,000-a-year job at the Ottawa Hospital on July 31.

The Civic Hospital Foundation has logged hundreds of calls from angry donors who
have vowed to withdraw their support if Mr. Levine remains the new hospital's
top administrator. Some area residents have also called the foundation in
support for Mr. Levine. Letters to the editor have called for his resignation
condemning him as a "traitor" and an "enemy."

Mr. Levine said he and his wife were surprised at the negative reaction. "We
didn't really understand the depth of the issues between both the francophone
community and the anglophone community," he said.

Nevertheless, he said he did not consider resigning because he's keen to take
the job, which he regards as the pinnacle of his career.

Although Mr. Levine was asked repeatedly for a clear Yes or No answer about his
political views, he refused to reply.

"I think everyone has the right to have their own particular position on a lot
of political questions," he said. "I believe in the aspiration of the people of
Quebec to determine their own future. That is the key belief."

Mr. Levine insisted his political beliefs are irrelevant, saying he ran
health-care organizations for 20 years under both Liberal and PQ governments in
Quebec without his views affecting his decisions. "The proof is in the pudding,"
he said.

Mr. Levine said he ran for the PQ in a Jewish anglophone riding in order to
build bridges between the French and English. He noted that he only received 800
votes, compared with 22,000 for his Liberal opponent. "I certainly wasn't trying
to enter politics by going to that byelection."

Mr. Levine denied promoting separatism in New York, but said that part of his
job was reassuring American investors that separation would not affect their
ability to do business in Quebec. "No matter how (Quebecers) decided their
future, they and their businesses would in no way be bothered or affected," he
said.

He said he didn't believe that public condemnation would affect his ability to
do the job in Ottawa. "What I have to do is meet the community," he said. "I
have to be able to speak for the hospital and let the community know what the
board believes in. I don't think it's going to be a real problem."

Also present at the press conference were board chairman Nick Mulder,
vice-chairwoman Agnes Jaouich and Dr. Jan Bormanis, president of medical staff
at the Civic site.

Mr. Mulder said the board knew about Mr. Levine's political past, questioned him
about it, and decided he was the best qualified candidate for the job. The
search committee did not ask Mr. Levine about his current political views.

"I don't think we want to go as far as some governments have done, including
those in Quebec, of deciding whether or not people should be appointed to
public-service positions based on their political beliefs," Mr. Mulder said. "We
should rise above that. We should go for competence."

He stressed that the board, not the chief executive officer, establishes the
policies, service levels and budgets of the hospital. He noted that the chief
executive is responsible for implementing the board's decisions and day-to-day
administration.

"The political, religious or personal beliefs of the CEO, or any other member of
the hospital staff, are not relevant in the performance of his or her duties,"
he said.

A few months ago, the Ottawa Hospital board hired Brad Mann Communications
Consulting of Gloucester to handle the "mechanics" of public relations, such
distributing news releases and setting up meetings.

"The substantive views that we expressed by either myself or by the board or
David are ... our own," Mr. Mulder told the Citizen's editorial board yesterday.
"Nobody has scripted us ... to say, 'Does that sound good politically?' or 'Does
that sound good community-wide?' or 'Would the editorial board at the Citizen be
impressed with it?' "

Mr. Mulder presented a letter of endorsement from Scott Rowand, the president of
the association that represents Canadian teaching hospitals, who wrote: "Mr.
Levine is respected across Canada as a competent, committed and highly
professional health-care executive."

Mr. Levine also addressed his comments to hospital staff. He noted that the
hospital steering committee was committed to providing services in both French
and English. However, he said that doesn't mean all employees will have to be
bilingual.

"Unilingual employees in this organization should relax," he said. "It is not
the intention to impose upon the employees of this organization any penalties
for being unilingual."

Dr. Bormanis said that about 200 physicians of the four amalgamating hospitals
endorsed Mr. Levine's appointment at a May 13 meeting.

Mr. Levine served as chief executive officer of Notre Dame Hospital in Montreal
from 1992 to 1997. During his tenure, the hospital amalgamated with two others.
Before that, he served for 10 years as the chief executive officer of the Verdun
General Hospital. He is a past president of the Quebec Association of Hospital
Directors and has taught health administration at Montreal's Concordia
University.

Barbara Lance, of Ottawa, who described herself as an a ordinary citizen,
attended the conference.

"I'm not happy at all," she said. "I'm sorry he didn't feel he was able to come
out and say Yes or No with respect to his political views. There is serious
public sympathy that's being ignored by the board."

As a couple of members of the public heckled Mr. Levine, Mr. Mulder said the
public will have an opportunity to state their view or ask questions at a board
meeting next Tuesday.

The meeting, open to the public, will take place May 19 in the auditorium of the
Parkdale Clinic of the Civic site, 737 Parkdale Ave., from 6 to 9 p.m.

Ottawa-Rideau MPP Garry Guzzo encourages those who are outraged at Mr. Levine's
appointment to voice their concerns at the meeting.



LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1998

LENGTH: 1285 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Hudson gets appointment to board at SMH

BYLINE: MAGGIE CLARK

SECTION: B; ARCHIVES; Pg. BS02

LENGTH: 274 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


SARASOTA

Noted for his history of community service and political acumen, George Trammell
"Tramm" Hudson was appointed to the Sarasota County Public Hospital Board on
Monday.

Hudson, 62, was appointed in a unanimous vote to replace Richard O. Donegan, 88,
who resigned Monday after serving six years on the board. Donegan was elected in
2010 and 2012 to the public hospital board, but said it was time for him to step
down and enjoy a more leisurely retirement.

Hudson joins the board as the hospital is facing a dramatically changing health
care landscape. The former bank president and three-term chairman of the
Republican Party of Sarasota County brings financial and political experience to
the panel.

"Health care is very political, and if you took at what's gone on in our country
in the last five or six years, health care has been at the apex," Hudson said.
"I think it's appropriate that people who want to serve in public office are
members of a political party."

All elected members of the board are Republican.

Hudson will hold the board seat until the 2016 elections, when the at-large seat
will open up to a countywide race.

Hudson said he does not foresee major changes in the hospital's strategic
direction in the near future, and said he hopes to see the hospital stay public.

"We, the community, own this hospital and it should stay public," Hudson said.

Sarasota Memorial is the only public hospital in Sarasota, Manatee, Charlotte
and Desoto counties.

The nine-member elected board is unpaid and oversees the public hospital's $564
million budget. The board also has authority to levy property taxes on Sarasota
County property owners.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tramm Hudson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

POLITICAL APPOINTMENTS AT LYARI HOSPITAL CAUSE UNREST

LENGTH: 400 words


KARACHI - Recruitment at Lyari General Hospital Karachi done in violation of
merit is causing unrest among paramedical staff as several non-permanent
staffers are not being confirmed, TheNation has learnt. The Chief Minister's
House has sent a letter to the Medical Superintendent giving the names of the
candidates for appointment, a member of the Union Paramedical Staff has said.

He claimed that Dr Mukhtar Ahmed Khawaja, the MS, had received a letter
containing 14 names while Dr Mukhtar had personally typed 14 appointment letters
and issued these letters to the ministry. He said as many as six candidates -
three sweepers, two ward boys and a maid - had already been appointed. The
source said that about two months ago a meeting of all medical superintendents
of the government hospitals was held. Sindh Health Secretary, Senator Ghaffar
Qureshi of the PML and MQM Minister Hussain Khan were also present in the
meeting.

During the meeting, Senator Ghaffar directed the MS of the Lyari General
Hospital to appoint some candidates in his hospital saying that the list of
those candidates will be issued later, he added. "Members of the Union of
Paramedical Staff Lyari General Hospital held a general body meeting and
agitation one week ago to condemn political appointments in the hospital. The
members also chanted slogans against the MS and higher authorities," he said.

The employees of the hospital had deep concern over the CM House's influence
over the recruitment process, he said. He said the employees of the hospital had
resolved that political appointments would not be accepted at any cost.  Despite
repeated calls, Dr Mukhtar could not be contacted. A senior official of the
health department requesting anonymity confirmed that there had been several
political appointments at various hospitals, including the Lyari General
Hospital. He confirmed that around six candidates had been appointed at the
hospital.

He also confirmed that the core committee consisting of Senator Ghaffar,
Provincial Minister Irfanullah Marwat and Hussain Khan had issued similar
directions to Dr Mukhtar.  He said that the ban on jobs in Sindh was still in
place and summary of lifting ban from the jobs was under consideration at the
CM's house. He said such employees could not inducted until the summary to lift
the ban was approved. This issue had created a mess in the Health Department, he
added.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Recruitment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                           Copyright 2007 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 5, 2003

GEM OF THE DAY; ELECTION WIN A TRIUMPH FOR PEOPLE POWER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 143 words


WHAT an amazing result in the Scottish Parliamentary election - a retired GP
stands on an independent ticket, takes on the might of the main political
parties, and triumphs.

The victory of Dr Jean Turner in Strathkelvin and Bearsden is a true victory for
people power. I hope the political parties all learn a lesson from this result.

People voted for Dr Turner because they felt the politicians were not taking
their concerns about the future of Stobhill Hospital seriously. The people said
they wanted the hospital to retain its general hospital status, the politicians
nodded agreement and then went right on to support the Health Board's plans to
change acute health services across Glasgow.

Dr Turner was having none of this and has shown the politicians that they cannot
go on taking our votes for granted.

Bob Collins, Lennoxtown

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              130 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Mandurah Mail

                           January 19, 2017 Thursday
                                 Print Edition

The future Western Australian...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words


The future Western Australian government must address the current shortage of
public hospital beds urgently, the Australian Medical Association (WA) said this
week.

"It is time for all political parties in the coming election to recognise the
facts: there are fewer public hospital beds per person in our state than there
were eight years ago," AMA (WA) President Dr Andrew Miller said.

"This harsh reality is despite the State Government spending substantial amounts
of public money over that period and the opening of a number of new hospitals
and health campuses."

Dr Miller said the average available bed rate had fallen from 2.4 per 1000
people in 2010 to 2.2 in 2015.

This equated to a reduction of 8.3 per cent.

"This reflects a completely inadequate government response to a jump in
population of 13.7 per cent over that period," he said.

"Public hospitals are really struggling under the pressures of soaring demand,
with bed shortages across all areas becoming more common every day, along with
code blacks, ramping and hospitals on bypass.

"We can certainly be proud of our health system in WA, but it is becoming harder
for many people, especially the most vulnerable, to access good healthcare when
they need it most."

Dr Miller said health should be "on the minds of every politician and voter in
this campaign" with one of the most important issues being capacity in the
state's public hospital system.

"A lack of hospital capacity has a dramatic impact on other aspects of
healthcare, particularly in emergency departments," he said.

"All political parties should make a firm promise that health will be number one
on their agenda in government and - no lip service - they must keep that
promise.

"We have already seen an announcement by the Liberal Party about an increase at
Joondalup Hospital.

"While welcome, this decision must be duplicated at other hospitals if we simply
are going to make up for what has been lost.

"In addition, wards that have been closed in recent years must be re-opened."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           October 29, 1986 Wednesday

DR QUITS HOSPITAL BOARD OVER 'POLITICAL' POST

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: DICKIE P

LENGTH: 238 words


Dr quits hospital board over "political' post THE Gold Coast Hospitals Board
deputy chairman has resigned over the ""political appointment" of a new
chairman. Dr Bob McLaughlin, who is also the zone Liberal Party chairman, said
the new chairman, Mr Earle Lever, had been on the board only 18 months. ""I have
been on the board for 11 years, other people have been there for up to 13 years
and none of those people were approached. ""I believe this is a political
appointment that smacks of all the problems Sir Roderick Proctor and various
other people have been talking about," he said. He said Mr Lever had told him it
was a political appointment. Mr Lever said yesterday Dr McLaughlin had taken a
""conciliatory comment" out of context. ""I was referring to the fact that he
was chairman of the Liberal Party," he said. ""I am not associated with any
political party." The National Party Member for Surfers Paradise, Mr Borbidge,
called Dr McLaughlin's resignation a political stunt. ""Despite his open
hostility towards the National Party he was reappointed to the board earlier
this year, hardly an act of political patronage or cronyism as he suggests the
appointment of the new chairman has been," he said. Dr McLaughlin said there had
been earlier moves to remove him from the board because of his political
affiliations, which had stopped only after intervention by Dr Llew Edwards and
the former chairman, Mr

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1986 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              132 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 22, 2016 Friday 5:50 PM GMT

"How's about we just stop booting the Vale Hospital about like a political
football? The baw's burst.";
Opinion piece on politicians playing the blame game over services being cut at
our hospital

BYLINE: By Marc McLean

SECTION: NEW ARTICLES

LENGTH: 623 words


The Lennox Herald was accused of "scaremongering" about the future of the Vale
Hospital this week - and it got my blood boiling. To the point where I was
considering a check-up at the hospital's blood pressure clinic.

Then I remembered that was shut by the health board at the end of last year.

Ward six was the next casualty of NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde (NHSGGC).
Another cut to our heavily bleeding hospital.

The Vale's in a critical condition and these two latest attacks prompted the
Lennox Herald to launch the Save Our Services campaign. This is being done in
conjunction with apolitical group Hospitalwatch, which has been fighting a
losing battle with successive health boards for more than a decade.

The message we're sending out is: "Enough is enough." We need to stop the rot to
make sure we're not left with a sad shell of a building in the shadow of
Alexandria's modern medical centre.

"Scaremongering"? Am I missing something?

The following week, by complete coincidence, we were told that the midwifery-led
maternity unit was also under threat, along with what is left of emergency
services. The latter could be switched to the Royal Alexandra Hospital (RAH) in
Paisley. Fancy that?

This was revealed in a secret document drawn up by NHS GGC chiefs that was
leaked to Dumbarton MSP Jackie Baillie by a member of NHS staff.

It didn't matter that this was made public by a Labour MSP. It could have been
leaked by an axe murderer for all I care.

But the next thing we know a few people (with clear political leanings) are
springing on to their high horses about who is to blame for the state the Vale
hospital is in today.

Let's get one thing straight. The Save Our Services campaign is non-political
and we're not interested in it becoming a slanging match about who is to blame
for the erosion of services and which political party was in control last year,
or five, 10, 20 years ago.

"It wisnae us, it wis them" is the usual cry from politicians. As far as the
Vale hospital is concerned, I don't trust any of them. I know most of my family
and friends across the Vale and Dumbarton feel the same.

How about we just stop booting the Vale hospital around like a political
football? The baw's burst.

This secret document showed that the ruthless health board has more Vale
hospital services in its sights. It seems like we're an easy target, although
these were in a lengthy list of potential cost-cutting measures at other
hospitals such as the RAH.

These are only money-saving suggestions for the skint health board drawn up by
NHS managers on six-figure wages no doubt. No decisions have been taken and so
no more services are to go at the Vale hospital. At the moment.

I reported on the full paediatric service being lost at the Vale hospital's
maternity unit 12 or 13 years ago.

Then the community was devastated when we lost our A&E services to Paisley.

There were rumours for a while that the Vale hospital's Christie Ward could go
next. Surely another lifeline service wouldn't be lost? No, we were told that
was just another money-saving option being looked at - no decisions were made.

Sadly, but not surprisingly, at the end of 2011, it was announced that the
mental health unit was indeed being closed and services were being transferred
to Gartnavel.

It feels like I've become the "Vale cuts correspondent" for the Lennox Herald.
Instead of reporting on yet another service being robbed from our local
hospital, I'd much rather be writing about how the community is coming together
to fight to save it.

If you want to accuse the newspaper of "scaremongering", then that's up to you.
A better option would be signing our Save Our Services online petition and
showing support for the Vale hospital.

Marc McLean, Lennox Herald reporter.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 22, 2016 Friday 5:50 PM GMT

"How's about we just stop booting the Vale Hospital about like a political
football? The baw's burst.";
Opinion piece on politicians playing the blame game over services being cut at
our hospital

BYLINE: By Marc McLean

SECTION: NEW ARTICLES

LENGTH: 623 words


The Lennox Herald was accused of "scaremongering" about the future of the Vale
Hospital this week - and it got my blood boiling. To the point where I was
considering a check-up at the hospital's blood pressure clinic.

Then I remembered that was shut by the health board at the end of last year.

Ward six was the next casualty of NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde (NHSGGC).
Another cut to our heavily bleeding hospital.

The Vale's in a critical condition and these two latest attacks prompted the
Lennox Herald to launch the Save Our Services campaign. This is being done in
conjunction with apolitical group Hospitalwatch, which has been fighting a
losing battle with successive health boards for more than a decade.

The message we're sending out is: "Enough is enough." We need to stop the rot to
make sure we're not left with a sad shell of a building in the shadow of
Alexandria's modern medical centre.

"Scaremongering"? Am I missing something?

The following week, by complete coincidence, we were told that the midwifery-led
maternity unit was also under threat, along with what is left of emergency
services. The latter could be switched to the Royal Alexandra Hospital (RAH) in
Paisley. Fancy that?

This was revealed in a secret document drawn up by NHS GGC chiefs that was
leaked to Dumbarton MSP Jackie Baillie by a member of NHS staff.

It didn't matter that this was made public by a Labour MSP. It could have been
leaked by an axe murderer for all I care.

But the next thing we know a few people (with clear political leanings) are
springing on to their high horses about who is to blame for the state the Vale
hospital is in today.

Let's get one thing straight. The Save Our Services campaign is non-political
and we're not interested in it becoming a slanging match about who is to blame
for the erosion of services and which political party was in control last year,
or five, 10, 20 years ago.

"It wisnae us, it wis them" is the usual cry from politicians. As far as the
Vale hospital is concerned, I don't trust any of them. I know most of my family
and friends across the Vale and Dumbarton feel the same.

How about we just stop booting the Vale hospital around like a political
football? The baw's burst.

This secret document showed that the ruthless health board has more Vale
hospital services in its sights. It seems like we're an easy target, although
these were in a lengthy list of potential cost-cutting measures at other
hospitals such as the RAH.

These are only money-saving suggestions for the skint health board drawn up by
NHS managers on six-figure wages no doubt. No decisions have been taken and so
no more services are to go at the Vale hospital. At the moment.

I reported on the full paediatric service being lost at the Vale hospital's
maternity unit 12 or 13 years ago.

Then the community was devastated when we lost our A&E services to Paisley.

There were rumours for a while that the Vale hospital's Christie Ward could go
next. Surely another lifeline service wouldn't be lost? No, we were told that
was just another money-saving option being looked at - no decisions were made.

Sadly, but not surprisingly, at the end of 2011, it was announced that the
mental health unit was indeed being closed and services were being transferred
to Gartnavel.

It feels like I've become the "Vale cuts correspondent" for the Lennox Herald.
Instead of reporting on yet another service being robbed from our local
hospital, I'd much rather be writing about how the community is coming together
to fight to save it.

If you want to accuse the newspaper of "scaremongering", then that's up to you.
A better option would be signing our Save Our Services online petition and
showing support for the Vale hospital.

Marc McLean, Lennox Herald reporter.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Children's hospital site now a 'political decision'

BYLINE: PAUL CULLEN, Health Correspondent

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 341 words


THE LOCATION of the new national children s hospital is becoming a political
decision rather than a medical one, the master of the Rotunda maternity hospital
has warned.

With a long-awaited decision on the project imminent, Dr Sam Coulter-Smith has
expressed his unease at the manner in which the Government appeared to be
approaching the decision.

I sense a growing unhappiness about the process. It now appears to be a
political decision, not a clinician s one,  said Dr Coulter-Smith.

The Rotunda, Temple Street children s hospital and the Mater have jointly
proposed building the new hospital on a site at the Mater in central Dublin.
Under the proposal, the Rotunda would move to a new building on the Mater site.

However, informed speculation in recent months has seen Connolly hospital in
Blanchardstown and a greenfield site in Belcamp installed as favourites to get
approval from Cabinet.

Connolly is in the Dublin West constituency of Ministers Leo Varadkar and Joan
Burton while Belcamp lies inside the recently redrawn constituency boundary of
Minister for Health James Reilly.

Dr Reilly appointed a review group to examine possible locations after a
planning application to build the hospital on the Mater site was rejected by An
Bord Pleanála last February. The group chaired by businessman Frank Dolphin was
given 70 days to prepare a report, which was submitted in June. Some 118 days
later, Dr Reilly has yet to submit the matter to Cabinet for a decision.

Dr Coulter-Smith said it appeared the Mater bid was not  flavour of the month
in political circles. What had started as a race between the Mater and St James
s hospital had now become a political decision in which  peripheral sites  such
as Belcamp and Connolly featured prominently. He said there had been no contact
with the Rotunda since the Mater submission, even though the provision of
maternity services would have to be addressed regardless of which submission was
chosen.  There has been no discussion with us in relation to any maternity
hospital element of a project.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            January 21, 2005 Friday
                                FINAL C Edition

Foundation says donations don't go to political parties

BYLINE: Debora Sweeney, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 218  words


Re: So many charities, so little idea what goes on, Michael Campbell, Jan. 20

Michael Campbell left readers with the impression that BC Children's Hospital
Foundation made a political donation to the Liberal Party of Canada in 2002.

We'd like to set the record straight. The former president of the foundation
also served as government relations liaison for the Children's & Women's Health
Centre of BC. Her duties included attending government meetings and events to
discuss the creation of a national child health network.

In the case Campbell cited, the foundation was reimbursed by the health centre
for expenses related to a Liberal party dinner. The purpose of attending the
dinner was to enable representatives of the health centre to meet with senior
government officials who were not based in B.C. The purpose was not to support a
political party.

At no time are charitable donations to Children's Hospital used to support
political parties or any other activities not directly related to supporting
clinical, surgical, research and community programs to help sick children get
better.

Campbell's failure to contact us has misled readers about a charity that this
year will give $30 million to help sick children.

Debora Sweeney

Vice-President and Chief Communications Officer

BC Children's Hospital Foundation

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             People's Review Weekly

                            March 20, 2013 Wednesday

TUTH administration

LENGTH: 230  words


I would like to write something being a worker at the Tribhuvan University
Teaching Hospital. We employees were very happy when Prof. Dr. Koirala had
arrived in capacity of director of the Hospital. Like the saying, "name of the
person who does", I have heard that the Kathmandu municipality is removing the
hoarding boards to keep the valley clean.

But if any municipality had come that would remove the political hoarding board
of the University, Nepalese people would have received something. Prof. Dr.
Koirala, who was made a victim of such hoarding board, has resigned. He is
taking rest. It needs not mentioning the amount of support of the people and the
employees.

The Teaching Hospital is under a single autonomy. What is the reason for
constructing buildings in the names of leaders of various political parties? We
have not been able to understand. There is B.P Koirala Eye Hospital, Ganeshman
Singh nose, ear, neck Hospital, Manmohan Hospital, Suresh Wagle Cancer Hospital
have been build and are in operation.

Were these buildings created by the money from the pockets of this people with
these names? Is there a law in T.U that anyone can do anything? Why do we need
to publicize it with a hoarding board? I cannot understand. Why has Prof. Dr.
Bhagwan Koirala, a person like you and me, taking a defeatist path so soon? you
must fight and we employees are all with you.

L

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 People's Review
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Sometimes, it's not what is said but where it is said

BYLINE: Graham Thomson, Calgary Herald

SECTION: THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Graham Thomson; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 740  words


When political scientists dissect the 2008 Alberta election campaign, they'll
likely focus on what promises Conservative Leader Ed Stelmach made, not where he
made them. And yet, sometimes politics is like real estate -- it's all about
location, location, location.

During campaigns, politicians routinely pick relevant venues as backdrops for
election promises to give their words a little more visual oomph. Rarely does it
get them into trouble. Then came this past Tuesday when Conservative Leader Ed
Stelmach unveiled a promise to train more health-care workers. He made the
announcement first in Edmonton at the University of Alberta Hospital and later
at Foothills Hospital in Calgary.

The trouble was Capital Health Region in Edmonton had a policy strictly
forbidding partisan political events on its property. "Just in general, all
public bodies try to avoid partisan political activity on public property during
a campaign," said Capital Health spokesman Steve Buick.

It is a sensible policy, one that helps publicly funded bodies, such as Capital
Health, from being caught up in messy partisan politics. In previous election
campaigns, both the Liberals and the NDP had asked to hold events on Capital
Health property and both had been flatly refused. And yet, here we had Stelmach
on Tuesday not only making a political announcement in a hospital but bringing
along more than two dozen candidates for a mini-rally campaign kickoff.

Campaign workers set up a podium with microphone and amplifiers in front of a
big blue Conservative campaign banner in the lobby of the Walter C. MacKenzie
Centre at the University Hospital.

For journalists, watching a hospital lobby being transformed into a political
setting, was just the start of the surprises. The event, which had been billed
simply as a campaign stop for Stelmach to make an announcement, turned into a
mini-rally when out of the Capital Health board room walked Stelmach trailing
his entire coterie of Edmonton-area candidates. It was like watching the
emptying of a circus clown car.

They just kept coming and coming -- and gathered around Stelmach for a photo-op
to cheer as he announced the Conservatives' plan to train more health-care
professionals (a promise that quickly got him in trouble when he couldn't

explain how the current overtaxed system could graduate an extra 225 doctors a
year).

It was all a bit unseemly having the Conservatives applauding themselves while
members of the public wheeled grandpa through the lobby. It certainly explains
why Capital Health didn't want partisan political events sullying its hallways.

So, why did Capital Health allow Stelmach and company to turn a hospital lobby
into party central? "There wasn't an elaborate rationale," said Buick. "We
simply had a request and said 'yes.' " That request, of course, came from the
Conservatives. In other words, when the Liberals and the NDP have asked to use
the facilities, they've been told "no." When the Tories asked, Capital Health
couldn't open the doors quickly enough. By doing so, Capital Health made itself
look like an extension of the Conservative party and lent credence to the
argument the Tories presumptuously treat the province like their own personal
sandbox where they're able to manipulate supposedly arms-length public bodies
such as Capital Health.

The optics weren't nearly as bad at Foothills Hospital, where the Calgary Health
Region never had a policy against partisan political events on-site and so
didn't look like a Tory toady when it opened the doors. Foothills officials
prevented Stelmach and his coterie of Calgary candidates from using a public
area of the hospital by steering the politicians to a relatively private third
floor where the hospital could at least pretend it was promoting Calgary Health.

Not that reporters were interested in the hospital's innovations. By that time,
the news media was focused on the Conservatives' retreat from the promise to
graduate 225 doctors a year. The issue of the inappropriateness of a political
party using a publicly funded building to house a partisan event never popped up
in Calgary as it did in Edmonton. Which is too bad. No public institution should
be used, or allow itself to be used, by a political party for partisan ends.
This might not be a major issue in the life of one election campaign. However,
the erosion of the independence of publicly funded bodies is a big deal in the
life of the province.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Fergus News Express

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Only Liberals deserve health care?

BYLINE: Fergus-Elora News Express

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523  words


It's time to take health care out of the "political arena." It's just too
important to be subject to the fingerpointing, posturing, and mindless
partisanship that seems to rule the upper levels of government.

The recent back and forth over the Groves Hospital project is a good case in
point.

For years, local MPP Ted Arnott has been lobbying for a new local hospital.

There's no doubt it's needed. Anyone who's ever been in Groves knows it. That's
not a criticism of the level of care, but a recognition that the building is
decades old and predates modern health care standards - especially regarding
things like infection control and how departments are laid out inside the
building.

But despite the obvious need, Groves (and many other health care projects across
the province) has become a political toy in the gamesmanship of modern party
politics.

Ted Arnott is getting much political mileage out of continuing to push the new
hospital in the Liberals' faces, repeatedly asking for meetings, for grant
approvals, and for approvals of the project itself. Liberal refusals will make
great ammunition for PC campaigning next fall during the provincial election.

Just to strike the point home, Arnott used one of his assigned private member's
bills to call on the Liberals to approve and support two hospital projects in
his riding.

The Liberals, of course, turned him down.

And just to make sure he knows how things are, a few days ago, a Liberal MPP
introduced a similar bill asking the government to approve a health care project
in his riding. And golly gee, guess what, all the Liberals voted for it. (Arnott
did too, to his credit.)

What all this political theatre means, is that as long as the Liberals are in
power, we can forget about getting a new hospital until we elect a Liberal MPP -
at least, that's the message the McGuinty Liberals seem to be sending.

In other words, they're gambling with our health to play political games.

Now we all know this kind of thing goes on. Ridings represented by a favoured
MPP or MP on the government side get approval for all kinds of projects - just
look at all the improvements to MP Tony Clement's riding so he could host the
G-8 summit in June.

But when it goes beyond arts centres and sports complexes to something as
important as health care, hospitals, and emergency rooms, playing these
political games is bordering on the criminal.

Health care projects must be evaluated, prioritized, and approved based solely
on community need - not what political stripe the majority of voters in the area
are - and certainly shouldn't be subject to political gamesmanship.

We'd almost like to tell Ted Arnott to stop lobbying for the hospital, because
the more he makes a new Groves a political issue, the less likely it is the
project will be approved. After all, how can the Liberals possibly "give in" to
the demands of a Progressive Conservative MPP. It would be like doing what the
opposition wants, or something equally terrible.

No, it seems the Liberals would rather stay true to their principles of never
doing anything any PC member wants, than provide modern health care for citizens
of this area.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   November 5, 1998, Thursday, METRO EDITION

Harris accepts hospital heat Premier airs old TV clip, denies closings his idea

BYLINE: By Caroline Mallan TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 467 words


   Premier Mike Harris attempted to beat his critics to the punch yesterday by
showing a television clip from the 1995 election in which he said he had no
plans to close Ontario hospitals.

The clip, part of a debate during the election that brought the Tories to power,
has been raised repeatedly by the opposition ever since the government-appointed
Health Services Restructuring Commission began announcing hospital closings.
More than four dozen are to shut their doors.

In it, Harris states: "No, certainly I can guarantee you . . . that it is not my
plan to close hospitals."

"That's me, that's what I said," the Premier said after showing the five-second
clip to the Ontario Hospital Association convention. "I understand that this
sort of clip is virtually irresistible to opposition politicians . . . I could
have taken the easy way out and left half-empty hospitals open."

Harris said he listened instead to experts in the field and relied on their
opinions to reform Ontario's health-care system. He added he is willing to pay
the political price for following recommendations of the commission his
government appointed.

"We had to do the right thing even though it meant taking the political heat."

The Premier told reporters later he did not break his promise to the people of
Ontario and that the clip, which no doubt will feature heavily in the next
election campaign, was taken out of context.

"It's an acknowledgment that it's a tough, tough political decision to close
hospitals, to know that there is a clip there that could be pulled out of
context and used against you."

Harris said his pre-election promise on health care was to find savings and
reinvest them in the system.

David MacKinnon, president of the OHA, said most in the field agree change was
needed in how hospitals are run but he added the image of too much wasted space
in Ontario's hospitals is not accurate.

"Over-all, the notion that the system is half-empty is not at all realistic. In
fact, the system, right now is 90 per cent full," MacKinnon said.

Harris' speech to the OHA was a last-minute change of plans for the premier.
Traditionally, the health minister addresses the closing day of the convention.

"I think it's important the people of Ontario understand: We took a difficult
decision . . . but we're well aware that it had not been taken for 10 years
because there is political heat associated with the change."

Liberal Leader Dalton McGuinty said the people of Ontario have every right to
doubt Harris' word and judge his government based on the short TV clip.

"At the end of the day, people trust their own instincts and rely on their own
good judgment. Mike Harris said he wouldn't close hospitals, period. He's closed
45, period. He lied. End of story."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              140 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Bajaur hospital opens five years after its construction

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 331

LENGTH: 356  words


The political administration on Wednesday inaugurated a hospital in Mamond
tehsil here, five years after it was built.

The D category civil hospital was completed in 2011.

Bajaur Agency Political Agent Abdul Amir Khattak inaugurated the hospital at a
ceremony in Larkholozo area.

On the occasion, the political agent said the hospital would provide better
healthcare to thousands of people of the area.

He deplored that local health department had failed to make the hospital
functional immediately after its completion.

Mr Khattak claimed that the political administration had been making efforts to
provide basic health facilities to people of remote areas. He asked the health
officials to launch a survey to find out which areas of the agency lacked health
facilities.

On the occasion, former KP governor Engr Shaukatullah Khan welcomed the opening
of the hospital and said it would efficiently cater to the health needs of
people.

On the occasion, tribal elders expressed pleasure over the opening of hospital,
saying the health centre had been longstanding demand of the local people.

Health officials told Dawn that the hospital was built with the financial
support of the federal government, saying, dozens of class-IV employees and
other non-technical staff had already been appointed to the hospital, but
appointment of doctors was yet to be made.

TRADERS END STRIKE: Ending their shutdown strike against illegal construction of
shops in Inayat Kalley Bazaar, the local traders on Wednesday set a three-day
deadline for the administration to stop the construction, or they would again
take to the streets.

Talking to reporters, Inayat Kalley traders' association president Haji Shah
Mohammad said the shopkeepers ended their shutdown strike following assurance of
local administration that construction of new shops in the market would not be
allowed.

He said though he was confident that the local administration officials would
resolve the issue, he warned that the traders would resume their strike if their
demand was not accepted.

He said the shops were being constructed in front of the existing shops, which
was not acceptable to them.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Ashland Daily Tidings, Ore.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday

EDITORIAL: Dignity/ACH deal gets political

BYLINE: Ashland Daily Tidings, Ore.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 533 words


Sept. 22--Two forums held last week to answer questions about a proposed
"partnership" between Ashland Community Hospital and Dignity Health seemed to
instead raise more questions about the future of the deal.

To no one's surprise, numerous questions were directed toward Dignity's stand on
abortion and physician-assisted suicide. The answers did not satisfy many of
those in attendance and raised yet another question: Is this a good fit for
Ashland?

Credit to the Dignity Health representative's answers to questions about the two
issues; she made it clear that Dignity Health's Catholic connections would place
those two options largely off the table, at least as far as any direct hospital
involvement is concerned.

The representative, Carol Bayley, was more forthcoming than hospital CEO Mark
Marchetti was a day prior to the first forum, when he told the Daily Tidings
that end-of-life care would not change if a partnership is formed with Dignity.
Bayley, however, made it clear that physicians at Dignity-managed hospitals are
not allowed to prescribe medication that induces death.

The hospital and its staff also would not participate in abortions, unless the
mother's life were in danger.

Neither of those restrictions would greatly affect how the hospital is run, but
it would foreclose future options to increase services in either area.

Dignity Health, formerly Catholic Healthcare West, is the nation's fifth-largest
hospital system that now includes 40 hospitals, 150 care centers and about
65,000 employees. It won out over several other bidders, including the two
Medford hospitals, when ACH started looking for suitors to help it shore up its
financial position. The Ashland hospital recorded a $2.5 million loss in the
last fiscal year.

The issue has taken on more political overtones as questions are raised --
albeit by a fairly small number of people -- about abortion and assisted
suicide. It likely will get even more political: While the ACH board made the
selection of Dignity Health, the final decision must also be approved by the
Ashland City Council because the city holds the lease to the hospital property.
The hospital was formerly a city department, but became a not-for-profit
corporation in an 1996 agreement that established the lease.

So the big question facing the ACH board and the council is whether Dignity is a
good fit for the community. There is no question that the relatively small
hospital needs a financial partner, but the question remains whether Dignity is
the right choice.

The ACH board selected Dignity from among five proposals by outside health
organizations, including the parent companies of Providence Medford Medical
Center (which also is Catholic-affiliated) and Rogue Regional Medical Center.

We don't know the particulars of the proposals, but if there's a close runner-up
that wouldn't come with the same limitations, it may be wise for the hospital
board to keep that option on the table. At some point, the political heat can
make even the best of choices seem less palatable.

___ (c)2012 The Ashland Daily Tidings (Ashland, Ore.) Visit The Ashland Daily
Tidings (Ashland, Ore.) at www.dailytidings.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120922-1AS-EDITORIAL-Dignity-ACH-deal-gets-political-0922-20120922

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AS


                      Copyright 2012 Ashland Daily Tidings


                              142 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              July 6, 2007 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL GETS BREAK ON DAMAGES;
HIGH COURT: IT'S A 'POLITICAL CORPORATION'

BYLINE: Anita Weier The Capital Times

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 914 words


The state Supreme Court decided today that the University of Wisconsin Hospital
and Clinics Authority is a "political corporation" with a cap on malpractice
damages far smaller than the one for other hospitals and with a much smaller
window of time in which to file suit against it.

The medical malpractice case arose from a motor vehicle accident in 2001
involving Aaron Rouse, who was treated at Theda Clark Medical Center in Neenah
and then at University Hospital in Madison.

In 2004, Rouse filed medical malpractice claims against Theda Clark, University
Hospital, several doctors and Physicians Insurance Company of Wisconsin.

University Hospital filed motions to dismiss, claiming Rouse failed to file
proper notice of his claim within the 180 days of the injury required for cases
involving a political corporation. The Calumet County Circuit Court agreed, and
dismissed the case.

The state Court of Appeals affirmed that decision in October 2006, concluding
that based on the language of two statutes and a previous Supreme Court opinion,
University Hospital is a political corporation.

The appeals court also noted, however, that the University Hospital authority
was created to put it on an equal footing with private hospitals that did not
have to comply with certain restrictions imposed by state law. "Regarding the
UWHCA as a political corporation actually gives it a competitive advantage over
its private counterparts in that its exposure to patient medical malpractice
actions is limited," the court stated.

Rouse then took the case to the Supreme Court, contending that University
Hospital is actually a private entity.

The Supreme Court ruled 4-1 for the University Hospital authority, with two
justices not participating.

"The Wisconsin Supreme Court today confirmed that an important legal protection
applies to UW Hospital and Clinics as a public authority. The court found that
UW Hospital, like other public entities, is entitled to have notices of claim
(the first step in filing a lawsuit) made within 180 days," said University
Hospital spokeswoman Lisa Brunette.

In contrast, someone filing suit against a private hospital would have three
years in which to file a claim. The court's ruling also means that damages
against University Hospital would be capped at $50,000. Other health care
organizations are liable for up to $750,000 under state law for noneconomic
damages and have no cap for economic damages, although the state Patients
Compensation Fund steps in for awards that exceed $1 million.

Brunette contended that the $50,000 cap was not an issue in the case until it
was raised by the Wisconsin Academy of Trial Lawyers in the Supreme Court.

Milwaukee attorney Michael End, whose firm represented Rouse, predicted that
although University Hospital ends up with a $50,000 malpractice limit, the
hospital actually could lose business because of the decision.

"Why would a patient go to University Hospital knowing that the patient will
never ever be able to recover compensation if something goes wrong? Why not go
to Meriter or St. Mary's, where there is full coverage of injuries?" he asked.

End said the real beneficiary of the decision will be Physicians Insurance Co.

"The hospital has been paying full boat to its insurance company for full
protection on medical malpractice claims and this limits payments to $50,000,"
End said.

Rouse lost the use of his right arm, said his attorney, who was unsure whether a
lawsuit would continue against Theda Clark.

Meriter Hospital did not respond to a request for comment by deadline.

"The Supreme Court's actions will not have any impact on how St. Mary's
addresses patient concerns," said Steve Van Dinter, a spokesman for St. Mary's
Hospital Medical Center. "Our focus has been and will continue to be around
maintaining high standards for quality care."

* * *

COURT REASONSINGS: The lower courts relied on the language of a state statute
that says: "There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as
the University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority."

But the Supreme Court's decision, written by Justice Jon Wilcox, went beyond
that.

"The Legislature created the UWHCA. It has a statutory purpose, which includes
providing high-quality care to the medically indigent, maintaining an
environment for instructing future health care providers, leading efforts to
reduce human suffering and promoting of health, and assisting with the delivery
of health care around the state," Wilcox wrote.

He added that the hospital's board members are either public officials or
appointed by public officials and that the hospital must engage in collective
bargaining, enter into agreements and leases with the state, and report to the
state.

Justices Ann Walsh Bradley and Patience Drake Roggensack did not participate in
the decision, and Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson dissented.

The hospital authority is not a political corporation and not an exempt
"governmental agency" under Wisconsin statutes, Abrahamson wrote. Instead, it is
a "hybrid organization."

"The employees of the University of Wisconsin are state employees, and tort
claims against them are governed by (statutes). ... The employees of the UWHCA,
on the other hand, are not state employees," she wrote.

Abrahamson added that the hospital does business ordinarily carried on by
private enterprise. Because it is not a political corporation, she argued, a
requirement for filing a claim at a set time would not apply.

E-mail: aweier@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                    February 26, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Qintang Court "Micro-Class" Classes

LENGTH: 434  words


Beijing, Feb. 26 -- "Down to concentrate on school work, lend a hand with an
open mind to learn, learn to lay down thoughts at ease." February 25, 2014
afternoon, qintang district party secretary Guigang City People's Court, the
President  special training in the hospital's "micro-class" the opening ceremony
of the hospital and police officers made three requests.



Organizing "micro classroom" special training is general secretary of the
hospital combined Xi Jinping's speech at the Central Political Work Conference
and the Party's mass line conference on educational practice, according to the
hospital development requirements qintang area and fully consider the hospital
and police officers The current team judicial capacity, after the hospital made
a deliberate decision Party, aimed at addressing hospital and police officers
political theory of knowledge, lack of judgment the level of implementation
problems. Able to the next level by organizing "micro-class" special training to
enhance learning exchanges among police officers, which together to improve the
quality of training of all police officers in the political, judicial execution
of business level, so that all aspects of the hospital police officers
knowledge, ability.

"Micro-class" training for one year, every month, a period of about two hours.
Today is the first phase lasted until the end of the initial approach to
training is to determine the end use of half-time in a month, the hospital
called police officers uniform training, centralized learning. Is the speaker of
teaching hospital leadership, the department heads. Speakers said that with the
use of teaching, face to face manner, political theory or interpretation of
legal knowledge as police officers. Qualified lecturers but also through
multimedia, in the form of slides, lectures make clearer, more direct, allowing
police officers more easily accepted. Heads of departments mainly pay attention
to collect, collate materials or concerns current events and legal updates in
the usual work to program to determine training priorities, and the Party's mass
line educational practice combine to collect the latest current affairs hot,
policies, Find the latest laws and regulations, judicial interpretation, grasp
the key, pragmatic. Each phase of training will be the last, as the case review
by the House leadership, and the lack of bright spots exist in teaching targeted
advice to ensure that the next issue of more targeted, more effective, and
indeed make good use of "micro- classroom "and really improve the overall
quality of the hospital police officers.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday

In custody : Prisoner dies at hospital

LENGTH: 229  words


A tribesman arrested over a property dispute died at a hospital while in the
custody of the Khyber Agency political administration. Locals protested against
his death at a market in Landikotal on Tuesday. "Masood, a resident of Mirdad
Khel in Landikotal, was suffering from cholera. Other prisoners in the lock-up
asked the political administration to take him to the hospital but they
refused," a local protesting Masood's death told The Express Tribune. "However,
on Tuesday, when his condition was deteriorating, the prisoners raised a hue and
cry, after which he was taken to the hospital."

The protesters quoted doctors at the hospital in Landikotal as saying Masood's
condition was critical and severe dehydration had caused the current state.
Masood ultimately died at the hospital. The protesters, including his father
Akhtar Amin, accused the political administration of causing the tribesman's
death.

Amir said his son was not a militant and was in the custody of the political
administration over a minor dispute. "Why did the administration treat him this
way?" the grieving father said. The protesters urged the government investigate
the matter and transfer the political tehsildar and assistant political agent
from the area.

Published in The Express Tribune, September 2nd, 2015.

The post In custody : Prisoner dies at hospital appeared first on The Express
Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                         July 15, 1997, Tuesday Edition

A CHAIN OF DECISIONS LEADING TO TRAGEDY;
CRISPIN HULL CHARTS THE BACKGROUND TO THE HOSPITAL IMPLOSION THAT WENT SO
GRIEVOUSLY WRONG AND POSES A FEW QUESTIONS THAT NEED TO BE ANSWERED.

SECTION: Part A; Page 9

LENGTH: 1156 words


A PROFOUND feeling of guilt pervades Canberra this week. It arises from a
wondering of how and why we could have been led to take part in the events of
Sunday.  And take part we did, just by being there to watch.

We now have a knowledge that, for a long time to come, every time we cross
Commonwealth Avenue the beauty of the scene will be tainted.

The guilt is compounded. Every parent who took a child to the lake of Sunday
feels they could have been endangering their child.

As we went to the lake on Sunday we carried with us emotional memories of days
when the hospital was a hospital: of birth and death and fear and hope. When
emotion is high, memory is more highly tuned. Indeed, there is bio-medical
research on this suggesting that high emotion causes chemical changes in the
brain that help weld in memory.

We had a juxtaposition of high emotion and the lure of the carnival created by
the centres of power in the community  especially government and media. When it
went wrong, in the hearts and minds of ordinary people (at least those I have
spoken to) there was bound to be a compelling reaction to this cocktail that
demands to see it resolved. The promise of a carnival had yielded tragedy and
guilt.

The guilt is greater because tragedy resulted from a string of causation which
was almost entirely human action and much of which was political action. People
feel guilty enough after act-of-God deaths they are associated with. When they
participate in an almost entirely human- created event, they feel that much more
guilty. And because Sunday's events occurred at a time of moderately high
emotion created by our recalling of events associated with the hospital, the
imprint will remain long in our memory and the demand for a resolution of the
conflict between carnival and tragedy will be that much more powerful.

One of the easiest forms of resolution is to cast blame. But blame without
explanation is only satisfactory in the short term. To place blame
satisfactorily we need to know the full details of the chain of causation.

As it is, the chain is incomplete. And how far do we go back? Say we go back to
the time when Canberra Hospital was an ordinary functioning hospital in Canberra
and go through to Sunday at 1.45pm.

The decisions in the chain are as follows: The political and bureaucratic
decision to build Woden Valley Hospital which ultimately undermined Canberra
Hospital's viability. There is some suggestion that, though started earlier, it
was pushed by the Whitlam Government in the hope of achieving a guinea-pig
hospital full of salaried doctors. But this goes back too far. None the less it
starts the chain.

The political and medical conclusion that Canberra should have only one public
hospital because that was the only way in the 1990s to maintain the critical
mass to support the full range of medical services and a clinical school.

The political and financial decision to close Canberra Hospital. This was
greeted with outrage and high emotion. The process, combined with the upgrade at
Woden, was drawn out. It became a running sore - and remained a running sore for
more than half a decade as the building sat empty, unused and in a publicly
prominent position.

Now we come closer to the events of Sunday.

The political decision to swap Acton Peninsula with the Federal Government for
Kingston lakeshore and the concomitant decision to clear the Acton site.

The decision to use an implosion technique to demolish the hospital tower block
and Sylvia Curley House. This one is critical. At present we have to assume that
it was purely a technical, cost and convenience decision. If, however, political
considerations are shown to have influenced the decision in any way, Kate
Carnell and the minority Liberal Government will be in desperate trouble.

The political decision to make a public spectacle of the implosion. Mrs Carnell
is somewhat vulnerable here, but there are some defences.  The failure of the
safety precautions of the implosion, whether by human fault or unforeseeable
circumstance.  Let's go back to the last three points.

Mrs Carnell has engaged in a lot of spectacle politics since coming to office.
The corollary is that if a spectacle goes wrong she can expect to be associated
with it going wrong, however irrational the association might be. For many that
has been enough to condemn her.

But in the context of heavy cutbacks from the Federal Government, even before
John Howard came to power, Canberra has needed a fillip. It has needed someone
to go out and energetically sell the place rather than to hope for some
public-sector salvation which will never come. To that extent others will not be
so condemnatory out of hand, but be more willing to concentrate on the failure
of the implosion itself, whether a human engineering fault or some unforeseen
element.

They might feel that if you have to level the site and implosion is the cheapest
and most convenient way, then why not involve the whole Canberra community.

This group, judging by letters and talk-back, has probably expanded considerably
in the past 36 hours with the entry into the debate of George Wason of the
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union. He accused Mrs Carnell of
pushing for an implosion as political grandstanding against safer, cheaper
methods.

His timing was appalling. Many have seen it as political point-scoring on the
back of an appalling tragedy. Indeed, Wason appears to have done exactly the
opposite of his intention.  He has taken some pressure from Mrs Carnell.

The point of this background is to show that the chain of events leading to
Sunday's tragedy is almost entirely of human making.

Bizarrely, an inexplicable "act of God" would not trouble us as much, at least
those outside the immediately family.  The background shows also that the
tragedy has a political context in the broadest sense. It means that, as
participants and voters, we are all involved. Thus the demand for resolution is
so high.

A lot of response is bound to be irrational; it is that sort of event. For
example, imagine if Mrs Carnell herself had pressed the plunger.

It would have made exactly no difference to the result, but the difference in
response would have been decisive.

And a lot of reaction is going to be anti-Carnell anyway, for example, by the
save-the-hospital group.

But the resolution for the middle ground will come after the inquiries. Unless
they find some precise explanation or definite human failing on the engineering
side, the resolution is bound to be political because there will be nowhere else
for it to go. And in this context it demands resolution.

People do not want to carry the guilt; they would prefer to pass it on.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

             Copyright 1997 The Federal Capital Press of Australia
                                  Pty Limited


                              146 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

focus on quality health

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 915 words


15 minutes with doctors would help diagnosis: Ammar, experts

Pongphon Sarnsamak

The Nation

Top economist Ammar Siamwala and senior health experts have called on political
parties to issue ambitious public policies for the election that allow patients
to see doctors for at least 15 minutes - to improve diagnosis of their problems
at state hospitals.

"I want to see all political parties promise people that whenever they go to
hospital they will have at least 15 minutes to see doctors each time. Today,
patients have only 5 minutes to see doctors," Ammar said. He spoke at a
roundtable discussion titled "Political Party Policy on Public Health and
Well-being for Thai people" held by The Nation and its sister paper Krungthep
Turakij.

Academics and key leaders from political parties including the Democrats, Pheu
Thai and Bhum Jai Thai attended.

Participants were asked to present ideas on how to boost the public health
system.

Ammar said parties had to create a public health policy to improve not only
accessible healthcare but also the quality of medical services.

Bringing people for medical services for mild symptoms at a primary-care unit
instead of allowing them to get treatment at hospitals was another test for
parties - to come up with a way to reduce crowding at hospitals.

"Patients should have about an hour to see a doctor and undergo treatment at
hospital."

Over the past few years, parties' health policies focused on extending medical
services without concerning about budget limitations.

"We know that the 30-baht healthcare scheme, introduced as a former health
policy by Thaksin Shinawatra, is seen as the best public health policy and that
it helped people to access medical services without worrying about the cost of
treatment. But governments didn't think if there would be enough in the budget
to support the scheme or not.

"This is why we have seen an overflow of patients in many state hospitals over
past few years," he said.

The administration of Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva had also invested a lot
of money to upgrade primary care units nationwide to health promoting hospitals.
Instead of improving primary care services, government just changed the name
plate of the hospital.

"It would be better if government promised to people that it would boost the
number of doctors to provide medical services for people in rural areas," a top
academic at the Thailand Development Research Institute (TDRI) said.

Meanwhile, National Health Commission secretary general Dr Amphon Jindawattana
said political parties' health policies did not go beyond putting a lot of money
into medical treatment instead of healthcare promotion and prevention.

"If all political parties don't change the direction of their public health
policy from medical treatment to disease prevention, the country will be
bankrupt in the near future," a senior health official said.

Amphon said parties should have a strong commitment to a policy that protects
peoples' health.

To create long-term public health policy, Health Insurance System Research
Office director Dr Samrit Srithamrongsawas said all parties should eliminate
gaps in the three national health schemes.

Democrat Party spokesman Dr Buranat Samutrak said they had issued seven public
health policies for the election including reducing the gap between three health
funds, allowing family members of Social Security Scheme subscribers to receive
medical benefits under the scheme, making a five-year blueprint for the National
Health Security Fund financial management.

The party's health policies also included improving civil servant medical
benefits and controlling the budget for the scheme, improving medical services
at state health units, allowing state hospitals to run administration and
operate as private hospitals but under government control, developing emergency
medical services, and enhancing local authorities to develop health services to
support local people.

Meanwhile, Bhum Jai Thai party member Manit Nopamornbodi said his party would
improve the quality of medical services especially in health promoting
hospitals.

To help people in rural areas access medical treatment, he said the party would
issue a health policy that produced a large number of medical personnel to work
at health promoting hospital within 10 years.

He believed that this would reduce the overflow of patients and workload faced
by doctors at general hospitals.

Moreover, local authorities would be allowed to help the Health Ministry to
develop healthcare services for people.

Pheu Thai Party deputy leader Vichan Meenchaiyanant said his party would bring
back the 30-baht co-payment after former prime minister General Surayud
Chulanont's administration abolished co-payment and made universal care free.

Paying 30-baht for medical services at state hospitals would ensure people get
good quality health care services.

His party would also extend medical services after office hours but patient
would need to pay Bt300 to get this at state hospitals.

"This money will be collected to buy medical devices and other products to treat
patients," he said.

As Thailand becomes an ageing society in coming years, Vichan said Pheu Thai
Party would introduce second homes for elderly people. They could stay and enjoy
creative activities. Health volunteers at local areas would take care them.

To prevent Thai women from cervical cancer, he said the party was considering
allowing girls aged under 15 to receive the vaccine that prevents this type of
cancer.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2009 Monday

Top South Korean politicians visit former president in hospital

LENGTH: 425 words


Text of report in English by South Korean news agency Yonhap

Seoul, Aug. 10 (Yonhap) - South Korean political heavyweights rushed to visit a
Seoul hospital Monday to wish for the good health of ailing former President Kim
Tae-chung [Kim Dae-jung], who has been hospitalized with pneumonia for nearly a
month.

Kim Yo'ng-sam [Kim Young-sam], who served as president between 1993 and 1998,
paid a rare visit to his successor in an intensive care unit at Severance
Hospital and met with the ailing politician's wife and former first lady Lee
Hee-ho to give words of encouragement.

Leaving the hospital, Kim Yo'ng-sam [Kim Young-sam], who had a troubled
historical relationship as a political rival with Kim Tae-chung [Kim Dae-jung],
looked back on their political relations.

"He and I have been close comrades since long ago. We had held each other's
hands. We have also cooperated in establishing democracy in South Korea," said
Kim.

The two fought against the military regime in the 1970s and 1980s but chose
different political paths after South Korea ended the decades-long dictatorship.

The former first lady appreciated Kim's visit, saying his visit may encourage
her husband, who still requires a respirator and tranquilizers for comfort.

Chairman of the ruling Grand National Party (GNP), Pak Hu'i-t'ae [Park Hee-tae],
also came to visit the former president at the western Seoul hospital along with
a number of ranking GNP lawmakers and gave words of encouragement to Lee and
members of Kim's family and inner circles.

"All people wish him a quick recovery, no matter what political group they are
in," Park said.

Lawmakers of the main opposition Democratic Party (DP), including Chairman Chung
Sye-kyun [Cho'ng Se-kyun], also visited the hospital to wish for Kim's good
health.

Early Sunday morning, the 85-year-old Kim's health condition became critical as
some of his medical indicators displayed abnormalcy, though he later regained
stability.

He has recuperated to some extent but needs to be closely monitored due to his
old age and complications of pneumonia, hospital officials said.

Kim's aides, family and medical personnel are on standby in case of emergencies,
they added.

Kim, 85, was admitted to the hospital on July 13 after showing symptoms of
pneumonia and was put on a respirator three days after.

His 1998-2003 presidency known for an engagement policy towards North Korea
culminated in the first inter-Korean summit in 2000 and Kim winning the Nobel
Peace Price in the same year.

Source: Yonhap news agency, Seoul, in English 0733 gmt 10 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          Berkhamsted & Tring Gazette

                              May 16, 2014 Friday

We're wrecking the NHS? No Ed: your government destroyed our hospitals!' says
Hemel MP

BYLINE: David O'neill

LENGTH: 436  words


Hemel Hempstead's MP has branded Ed Miliband a hypocrite after the Labour leader
accused the Tories of wrecking the NHS during a party political broadcast from
Watford General Hospital.

Mike Penning campaigned vociferously to save Hemel Hempstead Hospital's A&E unit
before it was closed by the last Labour government - which Mr Miliband was a
part of.

Mr Penning said: "Someone must have briefed him very badly. It was an insult to
my constituents. Most of my constituents would treat him with the contempt he
deserves, I reckon."

Hemel Hempstead Hospital lost its A&E unit, children's and maternity services,
stroke unit and a host of other services after the 2009 shake-up while Labour
was in power.

Mr Penning said: "Either the leader of the Labour party has got selective memory
loss, or he's a complete hypocrite. It was the Labour party that created this
muddle, when they closed Hemel.

"All of the issues that are being highlighted at Watford were predicted when
they did this.

"I find it unbelievable that he thinks people will forget this just five years
after they did it. When Labour were in government, they allowed Hemel to be
destroyed."

Mr Penning said lead thieves and people stealing copper piping and wiring
stripped the site after it was closed, because not enough security was hired to
guard it.

The Tory MP said that on top of vandalism would make it very hard to ever
restore Hemel Hempstead Hospital to its former glory.

Mr Miliband said there was deep anxiety' among staff at Watford General during
his party political broadcast.

But Mr Penning said: "That anxiety has been there since the day they announced
after a sham consultation that they were going to close Hemel and move it into
the Watford site."

He also accused Mr Miliband of tricking the managers of Watford General into
allowing him to use their hospital for party political purposes, sparking
complaints from its staff.

Mr Penning said: "I visit West Herts regularly, but have never taken a camera
crew and film crew. You go there to learn from the staff and for them to have a
feeling of security."

He said the Labour government was warned years ago that Watford General would
face all of the problems it is now if the Hemel Hempstead Hospital closures went
ahead.

He said the closures was implemented for a political reason'.

He said: "The only two acute hospitals that were left in Herts before the last
election were in Watford and Stevenage.

"The only two Labour MPs left in Herts before the last election were in Watford
and Stevenage.

"I will leave your readers to make their own minds up about whether or not
that's just a coincidence."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCG2


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Hemel Today

                              May 16, 2014 Friday

We're wrecking the NHS? No Ed: your government destroyed our hospitals!' says
Hemel MP

BYLINE: David O'neill

LENGTH: 436  words


Hemel Hempstead's MP has branded Ed Miliband a hypocrite after the Labour leader
accused the Tories of wrecking the NHS during a party political broadcast from
Watford General Hospital.

Mike Penning campaigned vociferously to save Hemel Hempstead Hospital's A&E unit
before it was closed by the last Labour government - which Mr Miliband was a
part of.

Mr Penning said: "Someone must have briefed him very badly. It was an insult to
my constituents. Most of my constituents would treat him with the contempt he
deserves, I reckon."

Hemel Hempstead Hospital lost its A&E unit, children's and maternity services,
stroke unit and a host of other services after the 2009 shake-up while Labour
was in power.

Mr Penning said: "Either the leader of the Labour party has got selective memory
loss, or he's a complete hypocrite. It was the Labour party that created this
muddle, when they closed Hemel.

"All of the issues that are being highlighted at Watford were predicted when
they did this.

"I find it unbelievable that he thinks people will forget this just five years
after they did it. When Labour were in government, they allowed Hemel to be
destroyed."

Mr Penning said lead thieves and people stealing copper piping and wiring
stripped the site after it was closed, because not enough security was hired to
guard it.

The Tory MP said that on top of vandalism would make it very hard to ever
restore Hemel Hempstead Hospital to its former glory.

Mr Miliband said there was deep anxiety' among staff at Watford General during
his party political broadcast.

But Mr Penning said: "That anxiety has been there since the day they announced
after a sham consultation that they were going to close Hemel and move it into
the Watford site."

He also accused Mr Miliband of tricking the managers of Watford General into
allowing him to use their hospital for party political purposes, sparking
complaints from its staff.

Mr Penning said: "I visit West Herts regularly, but have never taken a camera
crew and film crew. You go there to learn from the staff and for them to have a
feeling of security."

He said the Labour government was warned years ago that Watford General would
face all of the problems it is now if the Hemel Hempstead Hospital closures went
ahead.

He said the closures was implemented for a political reason'.

He said: "The only two acute hospitals that were left in Herts before the last
election were in Watford and Stevenage.

"The only two Labour MPs left in Herts before the last election were in Watford
and Stevenage.

"I will leave your readers to make their own minds up about whether or not
that's just a coincidence."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCHG


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Kildare Nationalist

                                 August 5, 2010

Save our hospital

SECTION: FRONT: TOP STORY

LENGTH: 398 words


THE campaign to save St Vincent's Hospital in Athy is being stepped up with
several new actions planned.

A packed meeting last Thursday was told that a march will be held in early
September to celebrate the work of the hospital and to hear calls for the
services to be retained and further extended.

A website is being set up at www.saveathyhospital.com and a Facebook page set up
in support of the campaign is attracting quite a large fan base. A petition for
people to sign and gather signatures was also circulated at the meeting. The
meeting was addressed by Athy Town Cathaoirleach Cllr James Mahon, Cllr Richard
Daly, Don Watchorn and John Hubbard who is a representative of SIPTU.

A committee was formed to progress the aims of all those in support of St
Vincent's and the PRO is Cllr Richard Daly. He told the Kildare Nationalist that
political leaderships across the political spectrum in Leinster House will be
lobbied and asked to come out and publicly state where they stand in relation to
St Vincent's Hospital.

"We will be calling on the leaders of all the political parties to either attend
or send their health spokesperson to our next meeting in September to state
their party's stance on the issue. At the meeting there was unity across all
shades of political opinion that St Vincent's needs to be maintained and
strengthened."

Cllr Daly said that the fear among people in Athy is that while there is no
explicit intention to close the hospital it is believed that the hospital is
purposely being run down so that it will not be viable to keep it open.

"The services are being scaled down. Staff have told us that over the past three
years the hospital has lost 50 beds. St Camilus's Ward has been shut down and
the HSE are striving to bring down the ward capacity to 25. This in itself is
not a bad aim but if a reduced number of wards have a reduced number of beds
then the hospital will become unviable. So we need to keep all the wards open
and try to reopen some that have been closed."

He also said that the exclusion of St Vincent's from a list of step down
facilities from Naas Hospital needs to be reversed.

"St Vincent's is not on the list and this limits the options for someone whose
relative is being released from the hospital in Naas and needs to go to a step
down facility. Private nursing homes are on the list, why is St Vincent's, a
public facility not on it."



LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 998 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 12, 2002

Health campaigner accuses Labour candidate of ignoring Harefield Hospital .

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 505 words



A KEY policy of Labour mayoral candidate m Vince Muspratt has been attacked by
health campaigners as a betrayal of Watford residents.

Mrs Jean Brett, who heads the fight to save Harefield Hospital, said the Labour
politician had abandoned local interests for the sake of political ambition.

Criticising his decision not to continue the campaign on behalf of the
threatened heart hospital, she said: "He's so busy climbing the greasy pole,
he's forgotten the people of Watford.

"The mayor is someone being paid GBP 50,000 to fight for local residents, a
people's champion.

"People's champion? What's the next joke?"

The comments are potentially damaging to the Labour campaign and were dismissed
as unfair by a spokesman, who pointed out Councillor Muspratt had backed the
hospital before closure was announced.

He said, with a decision made by the Government to move the hospital, it would
be "irresponsible" of a mayor not to deal with the reality.

No other mention of the hospital is made in the Labour manifesto, or in that of
any other political party.

Mrs Brett's comments were made on Tuesday, in response to one of the Labour
politician's manifesto pledges.

A central promise is to lobby for Watford's elderly to be included in London's
concessionary travel scheme.

This would give them free daytime use of buses, trains and the Underground when
going into the capital.

Although it is a policy none of his rivals would contradict, in a press release
he writes: "Increasingly, Watford residents need to travel to London for their
health needs. For example, to Moorfields Eye Hospital.

"In the future, with heart services moving from Harefield to Paddington, our
residents will need to travel on London's public transport to get treatment or
to visit friends and relatives."

Mrs Brett backed the policy, but was highly critical of Harefield being used as
a reason for it, particularly as campaigners are still opposed to the hospital
moving.

She said: "Vince Muspratt should be fighting to save Harefield for our elderly
people."

The health campaigner, who was critical of Watford's Labour MP Claire Ward
during the General Election for not backing Harefield, said party members seemed
afraid to fight for residents if it bucked Government policy.

The Conservatives have promised in their campaigning leaflets to fight for the
hospital, a move which has been criticised as political opportunism by a
opposition party with no real power to change policy.

Councillor Muspratt is the only candidate to offer the concessionary fares
pledge.

He said it would be a "major improvement" in the quality of life for elderly and
disabled.

He is also the keenest advocate of the mayoral power, and said the position
would enable him to have influence on organisations, such as health and police
authorities, he does not actually control.

It is this which makes him think negotiations with the Mayor of London Ken
Livingstone over travel schemes will not simply be ignored.

April 11, 2002 18:00

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


                              152 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 22, 2016 Friday 5:50 PM GMT

"How's about we just stop booting the Vale Hospital about like a political
football? The baw's burst.";
Opinion piece on politicians playing the blame game over services being cut at
our hospital

BYLINE: By Marc McLean

SECTION: NEW ARTICLES

LENGTH: 621 words


The Lennox Herald was accused of "scaremongering" about the future of the Vale
Hospital this week - and it got my blood boiling. To the point where I was
considering a check-up at the hospital's blood pressure clinic.

Then I remembered that was shut by the health board at the end of last year.

Ward six was the next casualty of NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde (NHSGGC).
Another cut to our heavily bleeding hospital.

The Vale's in a critical condition and these two latest attacks prompted the
Lennox Herald to launch the Save Our Services campaign. This is being done in
conjunction with apolitical group Hospitalwatch, which has been fighting a
losing battle with successive health boards for more than a decade.

The message we're sending out is: "Enough is enough." We need to stop the rot to
make sure we're not left with a sad shell of a building in the shadow of
Alexandria's modern medical centre.

"Scaremongering"? Am I missing something?

The following week, by complete coincidence, we were told that the maternity
unit was also under threat, along with what is left of emergency services. The
latter could be switched to the Royal Alexandra Hospital (RAH) in Paisley. Fancy
that?

This was revealed in a secret document drawn up by NHS GGC chiefs that was
leaked to Dumbarton MSP Jackie Baillie by a member of NHS staff.

It didn't matter that this was made public by a Labour MSP. It could have been
leaked by an axe murderer for all I care.

But the next thing we know a few people (with clear political leanings) are
springing on to their high horses about who is to blame for the state the Vale
hospital is in today.

Let's get one thing straight. The Save Our Services campaign is non-political
and we're not interested in it becoming a slanging match about who is to blame
for the erosion of services and which political party was in control last year,
or five, 10, 20 years ago.

"It wisnae us, it wis them" is the usual cry from politicians. As far as the
Vale hospital is concerned, I don't trust any of them. I know most of my family
and friends across the Vale and Dumbarton feel the same.

How about we just stop booting the Vale hospital around like a political
football? The baw's burst.

This secret document showed that the ruthless health board had more Vale
hospital services in its sights. It seems like we're an easy target, although
these were in a lengthy list of potential cost-cutting measures at other
hospitals such as the RAH.

These are only money-saving suggestions for the skint health board drawn up by
NHS managers on six-figure wages no doubt. No decisions have been taken and so
no more services are to go at the Vale hospital. At the moment.

I reported on the full paediatric services at the Vale hospital's maternity unit
being lost 12 or 13 years ago.

Then the community was devastated when we lost our A&E services to Paisley.

There were rumours for a while that the Vale hospital's Christie Ward could go
next. Surely another lifeline service wouldn't be lost? No, we were told that
was just another money-saving option being looked at - no decisions were made.

Sadly, but not surprisingly, at the end of 2011, it was announced that the
mental health unit was indeed being closed and services were being transferred
to Gartnavel.

It feels like I've become the "Vale cuts correspondent" for the Lennox Herald.
Instead of reporting on yet another service being robbed from our local
hospital, I'd much rather be writing about how the community is coming together
to fight to save it.

If you want to accuse the newspaper of "scaremongering", then that's up to you.
A better option would be signing our Save Our Services online petition and
showing support for the Vale hospital.

Marc McLean, Lennox Herald reporter.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 998 DOCUMENTS


               The Guardian (Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island)

                             June 1, 2005 Wednesday

Prince County politicians say health minister given way too much power

BYLINE: Thibodeau, Wayne

SECTION: THE PROVINCE; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 612  words


The unfettered and arbitrary authority being handed Health Minister Chester
Gillan is unconscionable and must be stopped, says a group of political leaders
in western P.E.I.

In a sharply worded letter to Premier Pat Binns, the political leaders called on
the P.E.I. premier to change the legislation now before the house to ensure more
power is left in the hands of the hospital boards. They say it should be the
elected officials on the board - not the minister of health in Charlottetown -
deciding the future of P.E.I.'s five rural hospitals.

The letter is signed by the community leaders in Alberton, O'Leary, Tignish,
Tyne Valley and Lennox Island as well as the co-chairs of the Friends of Stewart
Memorial Hospital - the group that convinced the province to return emergency
room services to the tiny Tyne Valley hospital after it was cut.

Lynden Ellis, chairman of the Friends of Stewart Memorial Hospital, described
the legislation as vicious. He said it was not well thought out.

"After working so hard to secure the future of our hospital, we don't want this
to happen," Ellis said in an interview with The Guardian from his home in
Northam, near Tyne Valley.

"We were relatively pleased when we heard they were going to give us our boards
back. But when we saw the legislation, the boards have no power. The boards have
no power and the minister has all the power."

Ellis said the boards would be nothing more than puppets for the minister of
health.

"If they want this to work, they are going to have to change some things."

The political leaders have presented the province with a position paper
outlining the changes they want to see to the Community Hospital Authorities
Act.

They want less power in the hands of the minister, an appeal mechanism in place
in case the minister rejects a decision of one of the local boards, and elected
health boards.

The province is planning to appoint the first set of health boards until
elections can be held.

The position paper also asks that the five health boards start with a clean
financial slate and not have to carry debts now owing to the hospitals or
regional health authorities.

Gillan made no promises but he said he'd look at their concerns.

But timing is not on the side of the political leaders in western P.E.I. as the
legislation passed second reading in the legislature Tuesday night.

"It's good that the community leaders out there are listening and are watching
and we want the very best in legislation to go in to guide us in the future,"
said Gillan.

"We certainly are very familiar with the fact that the communities want to play
a leading role in this - that has always been the intent of our government and
the department."

But the minister said he's not prepared to change the legislation to give more
power to the local boards.

"Everybody would like power but then nobody wants to take responsibility," he
said.

"The ultimate responsibility in this act comes back to the minister. That is
where people come unglued. They say the minister has too much power. The
minister has the responsibility - that's what this act is really stating."

Ellis said the provincial government will face stiff opposition from political
leaders in western P.E.I. if the province doesn't back down and change the
legislation.

The political leaders met in West Prince Monday night.

Ellis said they fear the provincial government may be deliberately trying to
undermine rural hospitals in the province.

"I don't like to say that but it can be done. The minister can, any day pretty
well, pass legislation to dissolve a hospital, add a hospital, change the name
of a hospital - they can do whatever they want to do without any consultation."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Guardian, a division of Hollinger Canadian Newspapers, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            April 14, 1994, Thursday

Fayette Voices Readers' Letters TELL US WHAT YOU THINK MY TURN Delayers of
hospital selling out county

BYLINE: By Roger Marietta

SECTION: EXTRA; Section M; Page 8

LENGTH: 518 words


I was disappointed to read that Georgia MedCorp (a.k.a. Fayette Regional
Hospital currently operating as Southern Regional Medical Center and previously
operating as Clayton General Hospital) and Georgia Baptist have chosen to
contest the award of a certificate of Need (CON) to Piedmont Hospital to build a
much needed hospital in Fayette County.

Peachtree Regional declined to further delay the construction for Fayette
Community Hospital as it will be called, and I commend them for that. When
Georgia MedCorp received a preliminary CON against the preference of the
community, I put my negative feelings behind me and looked forward to any
hospital. Georgia MedCorp and its small Fayette contingent apparently do not
feel this way.

This is not a surprise; however, because I can remember Fayette County's first
attempt at a CON back in 1989 and how Clayton General fought that CON tooth and
nail. In the proceedings, it was revealed that Clayton General's long-range plan
was to stop or delay construction of a hospital in Fayette County and included
estimates of millions of dollars of profit for Clayton General.

Later, when Georgia Baptist put in an application for a CON in 1992, Clayton
General changed its name and contested by submitting a competing application.

We were told that SRMC, or Georgia MedCorp, was under new management and the
stop or delay tactics of the past were no more. Today it is clear that not much
has changed.

What has changed is the selling out of Fayette County by those Georgia MedCorp
supporters who condone the further legal delays to a Fayette County hospital.
Many of those responsible on the Board of the Fayette Regional Hospital (Georgia
MedCorp) are also affiliated with the Fayette County Republican Party.

Bob Disharoon, who chaired Lynn Westmoreland's 1992 campaign; Annie McMenamin,
Peachtree City councilwoman, who is chairing Steve Wallace's 1994 campaign; and
Paul Powers, former chairman of the Republican Party, are just a few of the
Republican notables on the Georgia MedCorp affiliate's board.

The Fayette Regional Advisory Board is composed of more than 100 Fayette County
residents and is chaired by Fayetteville City Councilman Robert Sprayberry,
Republican candidate for county commissioner. Its membership reads like a who's
who in the Fayette Republican Party.

I've noticed that Sprayberry's press releases announcing his candidacy fail to
mention his prominent position as Chairman of the Fayette Regional Hospital
Advisory Board.

Just what is the position of the Advisory Board and the Board of Directors of
Fayette Regional? Do you support further delays in the construction of a
hospital by attacking Piedmont's CON?

If members of those boards want to see a hospital built as soon as possible,
they should resign in protest of Georgia MedCorp's decision to contest Piedmont
Hospital's CON. If they want to fight Piedmont's CON, then list their names and
phone numbers in the paper so the rest of the county can tell them how they
feel.

Marietta is a former mayor of Fayetteville and an unsuccessful congressional
candidate.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941110240

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mug shot of Roger Marietta.

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              155 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           December 5, 2012 Wednesday

Political' hirings to be annulled

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 284

LENGTH: 515  words


All politically-motivated appointments against various posts in Mirpur DHQ
Hospital and subordinate sections, without prior advertisement in the newspapers
will be declared null and void.

This was categorically declared by Mirpur DHQ Hospital MS Dr Haji Muhammad
Mushtaq Chy while talking to newsmen in his office here the other day.

About 17 persons, blessed with political backing, were inducted against various
posts in the DHQ hospital in the recent past. "The posts on which hiring has
been made were not advertised in national dailies under the undue influence of a
particular political group including certain trade unions", he pointed out.

Dr Mushtaq said that the cancellation of such appointments made sans adoption of
proper procedure would be made public through the media. And later on all the
vacant positions will be filled entirely in line with the rules and regulations,
he declared.

Lambasting the trade union organisation of the subordinate employees comprising
paramedics and other non-gazetted public servants of various sections of the AJK
Health Department, the Mirpur DHQ Hospital CEO categorically refuted the
allegations levelled against. Dr Mushtaq Ch asserted that he did not know about
the transfer of Raja Muhammad Rasheed, a non-gazetted employee of the local
nursing school. "Rasheed is not the employee of my hospital and resultantly I
have nothing to with his transfer nor it came into my notice", he declared. Dr
Mushtaq, however, pointed out that he only perform as the ex-officio
constitutional head of the Nursing School for being the MS of the DHQ Hospital.

He alleged that some vested interest under the fold of trade unions were engaged
in his character assassination merely for the accomplishment of their ulterior
designs by framing baseless allegations. He declared that he always offer
himself for accountability and ready to go to justice if he was involved in any
irregularity or malpractice being head of the Mirpur DHQ Hospital.

Dr Mushtaq pointed out that he was holding the office of MS since last three and
half years. "The period of his sitting position is much prior to the emergence
of the incumbent government of Prime Minister Ch Abdul Majeed, which have so far
completed 16 months", he pointed out, adding that he did not came to the
incumbent office with the blessing of any political influence but on the grounds
of seniority and outstanding performance during his service in the AJK Health
Services Department.

The DHQ Hospital MS said that his hospital was providing all possible medicines
to in and out door patients with the annual budget of Rs9.5 million. About 900
patients visit the hospital on a daily basis besides 55 to 60 indoor patients.
He said that the hospital enjoyed the status of a teaching hospital affiliated
with Mohiuddin Islamic Medical College under an agreement reached up to 2016.

Dr Mushtaq invited the media to get confirmed the blames from the concerned
authority or the institution leveled by the rivals including vested interest
instead of indulging in the unilateral character assassination of the
individuals.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                October 7, 2005

City 'lost interest' in patient

SECTION: News; People; Issues; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 430 words


A Professor has claimed City Hospital staff lost interest in an 93-year-old
patient who ended up with gangrene. Prof Jim Thornton, who works at the hospital
and was the unsuccessful Tory parliamentary candidate for Nottingham East,
talked about Margaret Hume in a speech at the Conservative party conference in
Blackpool yesterday.

He said: "I am becoming increasingly distressed and disappointed with the
problems in the National Health Service, and this incident illustrates that
worryingly.

"It seemed like doctors and nurses in Margaret Hume's ward simply lost interest
in her, which is when her problems started mounting up and she eventually
contracted gangrene.

"She is one of thousands upon thousands of people who came to hospital to get
better, and actually became far more seriously ill.

"We need to get back to basics in the NHS - we need to ensure people get the
care and attention they deserve and desperately need in hospital." Ms Hume
worked all her life as a nurse and lived in Woodborough Road.

Her family says the NHS let her down during the final years of her life, when
she spent much time in hospitals.

They say the final blow came after her health deteriorated and she was admitted
to City Hospital this January.

Ms Hume suffered from diabetes, which can affect circulation.

The hospital discharged her in April and she thought she would spend the rest of
her life in a nursing home she particularly liked.

But when the nursing home inspected her, they discovered gangrene. Ms Coetzee
said: "What angers us it was not noticed. If they had been able to treat it in
the hospital she may have been able to spend her last few months in the nursing
home.

"It was another blow because of a lack of care." Ms Hume, who never married and
had no children, was readmitted to hospital, where she died shortly after.

Explaining the family's decision to allow Ms Hume's experience to be used in a
speech at a political conference, Ms Coetzee said: "I do not belong to any
political party.

"We just wanted my aunt's voice to be heard." Nottingham City Hospital medical
director Dr Stephen Fowlie said: "The team knew that Miss Hume had diabetes and
problems with the circulation to her feet and this was monitored throughout her
stay.

"A slight change in her foot was recorded on the evening before her discharge.

"The hospital received a complaint about Miss Hume's care in April 2005.

"The matter was thoroughly investigated and appropriate action has been taken.

"We are sorry that this incident occurred."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Nottingham Evening Post


                              157 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                December 6, 2009
                                 First Edition

Stuff your money, Griffin;
HOSPITAL SNUBS BNP DONATION FOR OUR HEROES

BYLINE: GEORGE MAKIN l BEN GOLDBY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 514 words


A MIDLAND hospital which treats hero soldiers wounded in Afghanistan has refused
a donation from the British National Party.

Bosses at Selly Oak hospital in Birmingham turned down money from the far right
party after its members made the collection claiming it would be donated to
build a burns unit for injured squaddies.

The BNP, whose leader Nick Griffin is MEP for the North West, say they were
selling stickers calling for troops to withdraw from Afghanistan in a bid "to
help our brave and wounded soldiers".

But a spokesman for Selly Oak Hospital, which houses the army's Royal Centre for
Defence Medicine, said: "The British National Party is selling merchandise with
the promise of donating the proceeds to the Selly Oak Hospital burns unit.

"Neither the University Hospitals of Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust nor its
official charity, UHB Charities, has been contacted by the BNP about this
venture, and Trust does not accept money from any political party," said the
spokesman.

Labour MP for the area Dr Lynne Jones said: "I think the BNP is using the good
name of the hospital to further its distasteful views."

In October the hospital was at the centre of a political storm when Mr Griffin
claimed injured soldiers on Selly Oaks' wards had to pay to watch television.

Griffin was attempting to justify his wearing of a poppy on a televised debate
against the wishes of the Royal British Legion.

He said he would remove the poppy if the Legion would put pressure on the
government to stop "charging young British soldiers with no legs in Selly Oak
Hospital" to watch TV.

His claims were described as "absolute rubbish" by an army spokesman who
stressed military patients had free access to internet, television and phones.

Last night, John Walker, the BNP's spokesman, said the party was disappointed by
the hospital's decision not to accept their donation.

"I am sure that it's because it's the BNP that they are doing this," he claimed.

"We have as much right to campaign on soldiers and these issues as any other
party.

"If Selly Oak won't take the money, we will find a soldiers' charity that will."

Earlier this year, a group of senior military commanders attacked the BNP for
hijacking the sacrifices of soldiers in order to gain votes. After the BNP used
images of Winston Churchill to fight their European election campaign, former
heads of the British army General Sir Mike Jackson and General Sir Richard
Dannatt wrote an open letter saying the party were "fundamentally at odds" with
the values of the British military. "We call on all those who seek to hijack the
good name of Britain's military for their own advantage to cease and desist,"
the generals said.

"The values of these extremists - many of whom are essentially racist - are
fundamentally at odds with the values of the modern British military, such as
tolerance and fairness."

Griffin, who was convicted of inciting racial hatred in 1998 for publishing
material appearing to deny the holocaust, responded by comparing the generals to
Nazi war criminals.

ben.goldby@sundaymercury.net

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The Prince of Wales chats to an injured soldier at Selly Oak Hospital
last year. Top: BNP leader Nick Griffin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: my


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                   September 3, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital statement fails to answer Levine-Parti Quebecois question

BYLINE: TOM SPEARS; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: CITY; Pg. D3


A day after Quebec deputy premier Bernard Landry labelled him a supporter of the
Parti Quebecois, David Levine, chief administrator of the Ottawa Hospital,
refused to talk about his political beliefs.

The hospital took all day to put out a statement four sentences long saying Mr.
Levine won't take part in politics. But Mr. Levine wouldn't talk to the media
yesterday.

Instead, the hospital channelled questions to Agnes Jauvich, a member of the
hospital board that hired Mr. Levine. She, however, wouldn't answer repeated
calls, either.

The curt statement, its release delayed by its translation into French, quotes a
clause in Mr. Levine's contract dictating that he abstain from politics.

The unusual clause says Mr. Levine will not run for election and "will not
engage in any activities for, on behalf of or against any political party or
candidate for election" at any political level.

"This clause has and will continue to be respected. My job is to manage the
hospital full time," Mr. Levine said in the statement.

It doesn't address the question that has followed Mr. Levine since his
appointment in June: Is he or isn't he a PQ supporter?

And the hospital didn't answer other questions: How did Mr. Levine learn of Mr.
Landry's words? And how did he -- and the hospital board -- react to them?

On Tuesday, Mr. Landry said he was "proud" to count Mr. Levine as a PQ
supporter. He raised the issue in the context of saying that the PQ has been
able to appeal to different "cultural communities" and not just white
francophones.

For instance, he said, the party counts as its friends a Haitian community
leader, a Bloc Quebecois MP born in Chile and "my friend, Mr. Levine."

Mr. Levine once ran unsuccessfully as a PQ candidate in Montreal. He served as
Quebec's official representative in New York until being hired by the hospital
board.

He was widely described as the chief envoy of the PQ government in the United
States, and has answered questions about his political support ambiguously since
arriving in Ottawa.

The latest comments from Mr. Landry "certainly won't help him. It's absolutely
amazing that Landry said this," said Geoffrey Wasteneys, who originally
protested Mr. Levine's hiring. "It was not the wisest thing for Bernard Landry
to say.

"It's like the American president Warren Harding said: 'I can deal with my
enemies, but God help me from my friends.'

"And I think that David Levine must curse Bernard Landry."

Some of Mr. Levine's work at the hospital so far has been good for the
community, he said.

"We haven't heard any denials" from Mr. Levine, said Earl McKeen, who also
protested the hiring in June. "He should have come out and denied it if it's not
so.

"He hasn't got any common sense, Levine, for having mixed himself up with the
separatists in the first place."


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1998

LENGTH: 475 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: David Levine, chief administrator of the Ottawa
Hospital, refused to talk about his political beliefs.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 27, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

MP has a ball with alleged Mafia boss;
Ken Smith - 'I had a thoroughly enjoyable evening'

BYLINE: Josh Gordon, Nick McKenzie, Richard Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 489 words


Prominent Liberal MP Ken Smith attended a charity fund-raiser last month hosted
by a suspected Mafia boss and Liberal donor, despite allegations of links to
organised crime and a political donation bribery scandal.

Fairfax Media can reveal the former Liberal Speaker attended the Fruits of Life
gala ball at Docklands on April 17, just over 12 months after several state and
federal MPs attended a Docklands Liberal Party fund-raiser hosted by the same
alleged Mafia boss.

The event - costing up to $1000 for individuals or $10,000 for a table - was
organised by the alleged crime figure with involvement from My Room, a cancer
charity that raises money for the Royal Children's Hospital.

Fairfax Media last week revealed the suspected Mafia figure, whose name has been
suppressed by a criminal court order, helped bankroll the Liberal Party's
campaign for the marginal federal seat of Bruce. That event, in March 2013, was
attended by federal Liberal MP Russell Broadbent, who was embroiled in a 2009
donations scandal involving the alleged Mafia boss, with a keynote speech
delivered by Victorian Planning Minister Matthew Guy.

Mr Smith confirmed he had attended a fund-raiser for the Royal Children's
Hospital. "I had a thoroughly enjoyable evening knowing my expenditure was going
to a good cause," he said.

Meanwhile, the Royal Children's Hospital revealed the charity fund-raiser
breached its policy because permission from the hospital to use its name was not
sought.

"I can confirm that the RCH Foundation hasn't received funds from the My Room
Fruits of Life gala ball and did not give an authority to fund-raise for the
Royal Children's Hospital," a spokesperson said.

In a statement, My Room said it was "unaware of any proven allegation" against
the alleged crime figure, who had approached the charity following a family
involvement with the hospital.

The charity acknowledged it did not seek the hospital's specific approval for
use of its logo and said it would ensure that its "lines of communication are
efficient in the future".

It said it intended to direct the funds raised on the night to the "various
clinical and research endeavours that My Room supports".

"The guests were generally connected to or had businesses at the Melbourne
Wholesale Fruit and Vegetable Market," the statement said.

The event was attended by more than 740 people, raising about $226,000 for the
charity. The alleged Mafia boss and his family contributed $15,000, having paid
for two 10-person tables, one costing $10,000 and the other $5000.

Mr Smith and his former electorate staffer and ex-Bass Coast mayor Neville
Goodwin are understood to have been involved in fund-raising and charity events
with the alleged Mafia boss dating back to the mid-1990s.

The alleged crime figure has helped raise thousands of dollars for the Liberal
Party, particularly in the outer south-east, where he is perceived to hold
influence over voters of Calabrian heritage.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                December 6, 2009
                                 1 Star Edition

We don't want any of your money;
HOSPITAL SNUBS BNP DONATION FOR OUR HEROES: EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: GEORGE MAKIN;BEN GOLDBY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


A MIDLAND hospital which treats hero soldiers wounded in Afghanistan has refused
a donation from the British National Party.

Bosses at Selly Oak hospital in Birmingham turned down money from the far right
party after its members made the collection, claiming it would be donated to
build a burns unit for injured squaddies.

The BNP, whose leader Nick Griffin is MEP for the North West, say they were
selling stickers calling for troops to withdraw from Afghanistan in a bid "to
help our brave and wounded soldiers".

But a spokesman for Selly Oak Hospital, which houses the army's Royal Centre for
Defence Medicine, said: "The British National Party is selling merchandise with
the promise of donating the proceeds to the Selly Oak Hospital burns unit.

"Neither the University Hospitals of Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust nor its
official charity, UHB Charities, have been contacted by the BNP about this
venture, and the Trust does not accept money from any political party," said the
spokesman.

Labour MP for the area Dr Lynne Jones said: "I think the BNP is using the good
name of the hospital to further its distasteful views."

In October the hospital was at the centre of a political storm when Mr Griffin
claimed injured soldiers on Selly Oak's wards had to pay to watch television.

Griffin was attempting to justify his wearing of a poppy on a televised debate
against the wishes of the Royal British Legion.

He said he would remove the poppy if the Legion would put pressure on the
Government to stop "charging young British soldiers with no legs in Selly Oak
Hospital" to watch TV.

His claims were described as "absolute rubbish" by an Army spokesman who
stressed military patients had free access to internet, television and phones.

Last night, John Walker, the BNP's spokesman, said the party was disappointed by
the hospital's decision not to accept their donation.

"I am sure that it's because it's the BNP that they are doing this," he claimed.

"We have as much right to campaign on soldiers and these issues as any other
party.

"If Selly Oak won't take the money, we will find a soldiers' charity that will."

Earlier this year, a group of senior military commanders attacked the BNP for
hijacking the sacrifices of soldiers in order to gain votes. After the BNP used
images of Winston Churchill to fight their European election campaign, former
heads of the British Army General Sir Mike Jackson and General Sir Richard
Dannatt wrote an open letter saying the party was "fundamentally at odds" with
the values of the British military. "We call on all those who seek to hijack the
good name of Britain's military for their own advantage to cease and desist,"
the generals said.

"The values of these extremists - many of whom are essentially racist - are
fundamentally at odds with the values of the modern British military, such as
tolerance and fairness."

Griffin, who was convicted of inciting racial hatred in 1998 for publishing
material appearing to deny the holocaust, responded by comparing the generals to
Nazi war criminals.

ben.goldby@sundaymercury.net

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The Prince of Wales chats to an injured soldier at Selly Oak Hospital
last year. Top: BNP leader Nick Griffin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: my


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

Team Sunderbani holds meet

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: Sunderbani


Sunderbani, Oct. 20 -- Team Sunderbani, a body comprising prominent figures
including Doctors, Engineers, Teachers and Social activists of Tehsil Sunderbani
today convened its meeting under the supervision of its coordinator Arun Kumar
Sharma at Dak Bunglow here. On the occasion, all the participants held
deliberations on various issues affecting adversely to the common masses in
general and public exchequer in particular. Arun Kumar Sharma while speaking on
the occasion lamented the role of political representatives of various political
parties for their failure in providing basic facilities to the common masses
even after the 68 years of Independence of India.

Sharma expressed serious concern over deteriorating condition of the health and
life care facilities in the sub-district hospital Sunderbani. He alleged that
the health staff in the hospital in connivance with the medical representatives
(MRs) of the medicine companies are looting the patients and minting money at
the cost of human lives.

There are number of prescribed drugs that are available in the hospital but
owing to the strong nexus between the doctors and medical practitioners the
innocent patients are being forced to purchase medicines from outside the
hospitals, Sharma said adding that without any mention of 'Salt' in the
medicinal drug, doctors in the sub-district hospital are openly endorsing and
prescribing the patients to purchase medicines of the particular companies and
brands which are much costlier to those available in the hospital.

While lamenting the role of political leadership of Sunderbani-Nowshera Assembly
segment, Sharma said that Tehsil Sunderbani has been an example of gross
discrimination, as the Tehsil have been suppressed by outsiders for years on.
"Our political representation in the Legislative Assembly never belonged to
Sunderbani, which is the root cause of the miseries of the people of Tehsil
Sunderbani.

While demanding immediate crackdown on the prevailing nexus in the health
department he warned the political representatives of the Sunderbai-Nowshera
assembly segment should not take the people of Sunderbani for granted anymore
.He also took a dig at the officials of the Revenue Department for illegal
allotments of the land. He alleged that Patwaris in association with land mafia
were busy in allotting land through illegal means and there was no check on it
from the higher ups, which indicates that all are involved in this nexus and
minting money.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 998 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 March 1, 2005

Stop political interference

LENGTH: 126 words


The NHS is one of our great British institutions and is much loved and needed.
Yet despite large increases in money from taxpayers the NHS seems to be in
trouble.

The plight of Mr Chambers at Queen Mary's Hospital Sidcup with his two
infections and the stories of dirty rooms was appalling (News Shopper February
16). And Queen Elizabeth Hospital Woolwich cutting operations to meet Government
targets is unacceptable (News Shopper February 2).

I welcome the Tories' vow to make hospitals cleaner bring back matron and reduce
political interference in the NHS as priorities.

Under Labour there has been too much political interference and political
correctness which has harmed our health service.

Iris Kempton

Address supplied

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


                              163 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                           Manila Times (Philippines)

                             April 26, 2016 Tuesday

Erap says Manila hospitals serve all

BYLINE: Nelson S. Badilla

LENGTH: 229 words


SOURCED FROM CURRENT GLOBAL NEWSPAPERS AND JOURNALS

Mayor Joseph "Erap" Estrada on Monday asserted that there is no truth to the
accusations of his opponents for the mayoralty post that the public hospitals in
Manila serve only those who will vote for him on May 9.

Estrada assured Manilenos that his administration will continue to deliver
prompt, quality, and free health services in Manila's six public hospitals
regardless of their political leanings.

The camps of former Mayor Alfredo Lim and Rep. Amado Bagatsing have told
residents in their campaign sorties that the city-owned hospitals only serve
pro-Estrada residents.

"It (selective provision of medical services) will never happen under my term.
Our hospital services are non-political. Regardless of who you are, what your
religion is, your gender, your background, and even your political beliefs, as
long as you are a legitimate Manileno, you will receive the same free healthcare
services from our health institutions," Estrada stressed.

He said he has a long-standing order to doctors and personnel of the six public
hospitals to promptly take care of patients seeking medical treatment. Manila's
six public hospitals are Sta. Ana Hospital, Ospital ng Tondo, Ospital ng
Sampaloc, Ospital ng Maynila Medical Center, Justice Jose Abad Santos General
Hospital, and Gat Andres Bonifacio Memorial Medical Center.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political/General News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 News Bites Pty Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Parvez Elahi condemns political victimization of Shaukat Khanum Hospital--Says
millions of patients benefiting from most modern hospital

SECTION: Vol. XXXVI No. 215

LENGTH: 321  words


Deputy Prime Minister and Pakistan Muslim League senior central leader Ch Parvez
Elahi has said that N-League should not make Imran Khan's established welfare
institution like Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital target of its traditional
political victimization.

In a statement issued here Thursday, Ch Parvez Elahi said that targeting a
hospital for political vengeance is highly deplorable and the greatest moral
degradation on the part of N-League. He said politicking against most modern
hospital rendering great services to the cancer patients is highly condemnable
and worst example of resorting to such low level tactics and grave violation of
moral and social values.

Ch Parvez Elahi said that Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital is a non-political
welfare institution rendering healthcare services to the people where millions
of cancer patients are provided most modern treatment and highest standard of
facilities and deserving patients are even treated free.

He said that N-League campaign of allegations against Shaukat Khanum Cancer
Hospital perhaps may not harmful to Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaaf chief Imran Khan
but would certainly cause irreparable loss to the cancer patients from all over
the country in particular the deserving poor patients who are treated free of
charges.

He asked the N-League leadership to discard such low and negative tactics. He
said the mishandling of the hospitals and the patients in the Punjab,
deteriorated situation in the Govt. hospital due to their faulty policies and
the bad treatment being meted out to the patients and the doctors are very sad
reflection on their tall claims of "rendering of services to the people".

He further said that if a welfare institution is rendering such invaluable
services to the cancer patients, it should not be stopped from working and
vengeance of political opposition of its founder should not be taken from the
most modern and the greatest cancer hospital.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Minister orders removal of banners of political parties from hospitals

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 319

LENGTH: 377  words


Sindh Minister for Health, Jam Mehtab Hussain Dahar on Thursday sought immediate
removal of banners and posters of different political parties and groups from
all government hospitals in the province.

Chairing a departmental meeting in his office, he directed the medical
superintendents and administrators of public sector health facilities in the
province to also ensure immediate wiping away of graffiti by activists in
support of their respective political affiliations.

"This is high time to ensure that hospitals and healthcare facilities are meant
for public service and are not used as political battle fields," said Jam Mehtab
Hussain.

He reiterated that a healthy and apolitical environment must be urgently created
in healthcare centres so as to facilitate patients in seeking uninterrupted
assistance, otherwise noticed to be hindered under pretext of protest by
elements claiming to have their varied political affiliations.

"This is not acceptable and would not be tolerated," said the provincial
minister for health. During the meeting the Minister Jam Mehtab also took
exception to vacant post of gynaecologist at Civil Hospital, Umerkot.

He directed the Special Secretary for Health, Dr. Khalid Shaikh to ensure
immediate appointment of a qualified gynaecologist at the hospital, with due
consideration towards her necessary presence and timely deliverance of service
to the women belonging to the remote area.

"These women must not suffer due to absence of gynaecologists and other relevant
professionals assigned responsibilities, against salaries and perks," said Jab
Mehtab Hussain Dahar.

He also urged the concerned authorities to ensure that all public sector
hospitals, including those functional in less developed areas, remain well
equipped, with ready availability of all relevant medicines, drugs and
disposable and also manned by qualified and trained personnel.

During the meeting the provincial health minister also took stock of reported
mishandling of polio workers during the recently concluded special polio
immunization campaign in 11 high risk districts.

Instances of vaccine dropping and reported carelessness of these workers cannot
be tolerated and the matter would be duly investigated so as to bring to task
the miscreants, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           February 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Hospital funding promises are healthy for conservative hopefuls

BYLINE: Sean Nicholls STATE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 417 words


AT least three-quarters of the hospital funding announced by the Opposition
Leader, Barry O'Farrell, is destined for Coalition seats or those it is
targeting at next month's election. Coalition documents show it has included a
$75 million upgrade of Port Macquarie Hospital, despite the expectation it will
come from the federal government's $1.8 billion health and hospitals fund. An
analysis by the Herald shows that of the $885 million of new spending announced
by Mr O'Farrell at the Liberals' campaign launch on Sunday, $652.5 million has
been promised for hospital and health infrastructure in key Coalition seats.

The Coalition has promised to pour $117.5 million into projects in the seat of
Dubbo, which the Nationals are trying to win from the independent Dawn Fardell.
It has promised $50 million for a staged redevelopment of Dubbo Hospital, $25
million for Forbes Hospital and $42.5 million towards a new hospital at Parkes.
The Nationals have high hopes in the seat for their candidate Troy Grant, a
local police inspector, and have chosen Dubbo as the location for their campaign
launch this weekend. In Tamworth - another independent-held seat being targeted
by the Nationals - $100 million has been promised for a new hospital, while $125
million is promised for a new hospital at Wagga Wagga, held by the Liberal Daryl
Maguire. In northern NSW, the Nationals MPs Don Page and Thomas George will
benefit from a promise to provide $10 million in funding for the expansion of
Lismore and Byron hospitals. It has promised $20 million towards a new hospital
in Maitland, where its former upper house MP Robyn Parker is trying to unseat
Labor's Frank Terenzini. Apart from Maitland, two Labor-held seats would receive
funding under the Coalition's announcement. In Blacktown, where the Transport
Minister, John Robertson, is trying to move from the upper house, the hospital
would receive $125 million for a staged redevelopment. In Shellharbour, where
Labor's Lylea McMahon is retiring, there would be $10 million for an Illawarra
regional plan and expansion of Shellharbour Hospital. The opposition spokeswoman
for health, Jillian Skinner, rejected the analysis. "Doctors, nurses, allied
health professionals or patients in any one of the projects we've identified
will tell you an upgrade is desperately needed," she said. The Health Minister
and Deputy Premier, Carmel Tebbutt, yesterday committed Labor to a $245 million
redevelopment of Blacktown and Mount Druitt hospitals if re-elected.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barry O'Farrell ... $885 million to spend. Photo: Mike Sea

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             April 20, 2009 Monday

Amata suffers from riots

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 449 words


Four clients have put on hold their planned land purchases, while a big deal
from a Chinese agricultural investor is expected to be postponed as well, Viboon
Kromadit, chief operating officer of Amata, said yesterday.

"As a businessman, I admit I'm afraid that the political situation could get
worse. Industrial estates perform in line with foreigninvestor confidence. I'm
worried that foreign investors will shift to Vietnam, where the political
situation is more stable.

"However, it's good news for us as they [foreign investors] have only deferred
their plans, not cancelled. So we still have a chance to convince them if the
political situation improves," he said.

He thinks Thailand now is tantamount to an uninhabitable house, not as
attractive to foreign investors as it was.

Amata's land sales this year will certainly fall below last year's 900 rai, he
said, as the developer has failed to secure its targeted land sales for the
year.

It sold just 40 rai in the first quarter, far below its average of 200 rai per
quarter.

Viboon called on the government to organise more roadshows overseas to rebuild
confidence among foreign investors.

Bangkok Hospital Medical Centre, a unit of Bangkok Dusit Medical Services
(BDMS), sees no impact on its 13 Bangkok Hospitals nationwide from the political
uprising, as foreign patients have not rescheduled their appointments.

CEO Chatree Duangnet said the hospital felt no need to adjust its business plan
or revenue target, even though onethird of its patients are foreigners.

"I was concerned that Bangkok Hospitals would be affected as the protest wore
on, with foreign patients avoiding the country and opting for other medical
destinations such as Singapore. Fortunately the government quickly brought the
situation under control, so medical services will not be hit," he said.

No cancellations were received during the brief political violence or its wake
from foreign patients planning to fly here for treatment at Bangkok Hospitals.
Only 5 per cent of all foreign patients are tourists.

BDMS, which also operates the three Samitivej Hospitals, BNH Hospital and the
two Royal International Hospitals, has targeted revenue growth this year of 10
per cent from Bt21.54 billion last year.

Operating results for the first three months of this year were flat from a year
ago, in line with BDMS's projection.

"Economic problems remain the key factor to have hit our business this year. I
believe that the economic situation will recover in the second half, so we stand
by our revenuegrowth target of 10 per cent," he said.

Bangkok Hospitals is one of the three largest generalmedical institutions in the
country. It focuses equally on foreign and local patients.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 March 15, 2003

St Andrews Woman Standing For Election To Save Hospitals

SECTION: News; Politics; ScottishParl'ment; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 351 words


A Former senior officer with a Perth-based charity is standing for election to
the Scottish Parliament, in a campaign to save three hospitals. Helen McDade, of
St Andrews, is a freelance consultant at the Scottish Parliament, working on
issues relating to supplements contained in food and the chronic fatigue illness
ME. She was previously executive officer with the ME charity Merge. Ms McDade
became involved with ME issues after one of her three children developed the
illness.

Ms McDade will be seeking election as a list candidate in Mid Scotland and Fife,
on a 'Save Local Hospitals - Dunfermline, Perth, Stirling' ticket.

There have been long-standing concerns about services at the Royal Infirmaries
in Perth and Stirling, as well as at Queen Margaret's Hospital in Dunfermline,
prompting Ms McDade to seek support in the May 1 poll for the fight to save the
hospitals. Ms McDade said the three hospitals were all facing changes which
would "remove services from their locality".

"In every case, the decision-making process is treated as a local choice between
one location and another, setting neighbouring communities against each other,"
she said. "However, these decisions should be considered as part of a national
strategy, with the Scottish Executive setting out a clear vision of hospital
service provision for the future.

"The Scottish Executive has completely failed in its responsibility to consider
strategic issues, leaving decision-making within the narrow interests of Health
Boards. For example, hospital sites are being identified without considering the
extra transport costs, both to the nation, for upgraded links and public
transport, but also to individual patients and families who are forced to travel
further and further afield.

"None of the political parties is facing up to a radical re-think of the NHS. We
are told that smaller hospitals are not sustainable but this has not been
debated nationally. It is clear to those of us campaigning from the patients'
viewpoint, that the politicians do not understand enough to ask probing
questions." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal


                              169 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 16, 2005

All parties united in bid to save hospital

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 417 words


Sir - When I addressed the people's rally in support of keeping health services
at Cossham Hospital, I thanked our local councillors and politicians for putting
aside their political differences to support their constituents' common cause.
It was a joy to witness this type of community unity for the greater good that
surpassed political persuasions.

However, as I am receiving many letters from people concerned with the
highlighting of various forms of political support, I wish to be open regarding
my own stance.

At this time I am totally nonpartisan; my allegiance is not to any one party. If
any of our political representatives wished to put on a demonstration or rally
on behalf of the hospital, if invited I will be there to lend support.

I suppose why Owen Inskip (prospective Tory candidate for Kingswood) is being
pilloried is because he was first to state his total support for Cossham
Hospital and the people of Kingswood.

Roger Berry (Labour MP for Kingswood) adopted a quieter and more tentative
approach. This does not mean that he is not in support of keeping the hospital
open.

We are a free people and show our differences in the ways we react to
situations. This is what democracy and free speech is about.

At the end of a meeting last week to discuss the plans for Cossham's future, it
was put to David Tappin of the North Bristol NHS Trust that should their
suggestions for the future of the Orchard Medical Centre and the Kingswood
Health Centre prove to be inadequate and unsuitable for Kingswood's health
needs, did they have a "Plan B" alternative?  His answer was shocking. We were
told that the Trust would look for another site - but that it would not be
Cossham!  He reinforced this by stating twice: "We would NOT refurbish Cossham".

What he had said had nullified at a stroke the consultation process meaning that
thousands of pounds of public money had been wasted on glossy literature and
consultation group meetings, and the time of councillors and members of the
public spent in energy and commitment had been pre-empted. The Trust had set its
mind against investing in Cossham.

We should not be angry with politicians' support, but rather direct our anger
towards the NHS trust which wishes to rob us of our inheritance.

On Tuesday, February 22, Cossham supporters will rally at College Green, Bristol
between 12.30 and 3pm and any support from members of the public would be much
appreciated.

Mrs D Powell Oldland Common

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005 1602WESTDP314allpa

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


                              170 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 5, 2005, Monday

CHIRAC 'NOW EAGER TO LEAVE' AFTER HOSPITAL STAY

SECTION: Post Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 319 words


President Jacques Chirac was said to be in a 'good condition' in hospital
yesterday where he is being treated for a blood vessel problem.

Chirac (pictured) was taken to a Paris military hospital late on Friday after
suffering blood vessel trouble that was hindering his eyesight, but he was
already eager to leave, officials said.

'His general state and his medical report are very satisfactory,' said
Val-de-Grace military hospital in a statement, adding he would stay under
medical supervision for several days.

Chirac's wife, Bernadette, was seen leaving the hospital yesterday afternoon,
but only waved to reporters.

Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin said Chirac was in 'good form' when the two
men met at the hospital on Saturday.

Officials said Chirac had cancelled or delayed several appointments this week.

With Chirac sidelined, the popular leader of his conservative political party,
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, told party members that no one would stop his
quest for the presidency in 2007 and sought to draw a line between their visions
for France.

The two men have long had a tense relationship. Many political observers cite
Sarkozy's decision to back then-Prime Minister Edouard Balladur in the 1995
presidential race, which Chirac won, as one cause.

Although Sarkozy has never hidden his presidential ambitions, choosing a
candidate for an election is up to the party. Questions remain about whether
Chirac will seek a third term.

In a boisterous speech to cheering members of the Union for a Popular Movement
in the Atlantic coastal resort of La Baule, Sarkozy promised a 'healthy, loyal
and quality' competition in the 2007 race.

Sarkozy is often depicted in polls and French media as the front-runner for the
2007 contest. But polls show the popularity of Villepin - viewed as Chirac's top
protege - has been rising since he took office in June.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              171 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Minister orders removal of banners of political parties from hospitals

LENGTH: 339  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Nov. 21 -- Sindh Minister for Health Jam Mehtab Hussain Dahar sought
immediate removal of banners and posters of different political parties and
groups from all government hospitals in the province.Chairing a departmental
meeting he directed medical superintendents and administrators of public sector
health facilities in the province to also ensure immediate wiping away of
graffiti by activists in support of their respective political affiliations.

This is high time to ensure hospitals and healthcare facilities are meant for
public service and are not used as political battlefields, said Hussain.

He reiterated a healthy and apolitical environment should be urgently created in
healthcare centres so as to facilitate patients in seeking uninterrupted
assistance, otherwise noticed to be hindered under pretext of protest by
elements claiming to have their varied political affiliations. This is not
acceptable and would not be tolerated, said Sindh minister.

Mehtab also took exception to vacant post of gynecologist at Civil Hosptal,
Umerkot. He directed Special Secretary for Health Dr Khalid Shaikh to ensure
immediate appointment of a qualified gynecologist at the Hospital.

He urged the concerned authorities to ensure all public sector hospitals,
including those functional in less developed areas, remain well equipped, with
ready availability of all relevant medicines, drugs and disposable and also
manned by qualified and trained personnel.

During the meeting the provincial health minister took stock of reported
mishandling of polio workers during the recently concluded special polio
immunisation campaign in 11 high-risk districts.

Instances of vaccine dropping and reported carelessness of these workers cannot
be tolerated and the matter would be duly investigated so as to bring to task
the miscreants, he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            February 21, 2014 Friday

Landikotal hospital closed, patients back to homes

BYLINE:  Farid Shinwari

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 850

LENGTH: 439  words


A large number of patients on Thursday returned homes without being treated and
examined in Agency Headquarter Hospital Landikotal after Khyber Agency
Paramedical Association and Doctors Association closed OPD in protest against
the rude behaviour of political Administration of Landikotal.

The demonstration was led by president (KPA) Abdul Haleem Afridi told media that
few days back, officials of hospital had raised voice regarding the problems
being faced by them. He alleged and saying the officials of political
administration conducted raid of the hospital and also broke the lock of account
section.

APA Landikotal when contacted for his comments saying that they had conducted
raid few days back and found 29 doctors absent out of 35 doctors in hospital.
About the administration, APA said it had right to conduct raids over other
departments.

Another official of hospital administration said the Medical Superintendent,
Rauf Wazir left the office in a protest after Political Tehsildar Landikotal
Daftar Khan and MNA, Alhaj Shahje Gul Afridi had raided the hospital on 15
February, and broke the lock of account section.

After some days, political tehsildar again visited the MS, Rauf Wazir office and
exchanged harsh words with him, he explained. MS Rauf Wazir, who left the office
in protest against the rude attitude of political tehsildar also did not conduct
round visits of patient wards in last two days, official informed.

Officials of paramedical and doctors association jointly observed the protest
and closed OPD all the day long. The protest was carried out in protest against
behaviour of administration official and in favour of their demands.

One of the patients, Rehmatullah Afridi of Zakhakhel while talking to local
journalists said he had come to Landikotal hospital from way off area in order
make his kid treated here, who is suffering from typhoid. He expressed
displeasure over the closure of hospital saying that they had no concern with
clashes among administration and hospital officials. He demanded the ending of
inhuman attitude of hospital and administration officials with patients.

Hospital demonstrators threatened if the matter was not solved till the coming
Saturday, they will boycott joining upcoming an anti-polio drive.

During the demonstration, the emergency and labour room had remained opened for
patients.

Later, on the interruption of Jirga members, the protest was suspended
temporarily after being ensured to bring back the MS to rejoin his position in
hospital. Malik Nadeem Afridi, Malik Abdullah Khan and Wali Mohammad Afridi were
among the Jirga members of MNA Alhaj Shahje Gul Afridi.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 20, 2005, Tuesday

DOCS WARD OFF DRACULA;
 HEALTH BOSSES BAN HOWARD'S HOSPITAL VISIT

BYLINE: BY MAGGIE BARRY

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words

HIGHLIGHT: MOANER: Tory leader on tour


HEALTH chiefs yesterday barred Tory leader Michael Howard from visiting a
hospital on his whistle-stop tour of Scotland.

Howard, who came north to campaign in two by-elections, had planned to look in
on Glasgow's Victoria Infirmary as part of the battle in Cathcart.

The seat is vacant following the resignation of sitting Labour MSP Mike Watson,
who had pleaded guilty to wilful fire-raising charges.

And the Conservatives are trying to make the closure of the Victoria a central
plank of their by-election bid.

But NHS Greater Glasgow had other ideas and told Howard he was not wanted.

Health chiefs said no politicians were getting into the hospital during the heat
of the campaign.

After the snub the Tory leader moaned: "I went into hospitals during the General
Election campaign and Tony Blair went into hospitals during the General Election
campaign.

"It is an outrage that Glasgow NHS has said that I am not to be allowed to go
into that hospital."

He was forced to move on to the Livingston by- election where Gordon Brown was
campaigning for Labour candidate Jim Devine. But Howard didn't have much luck
there either.

He was thrown out of the Almondvale Shopping Centre by a security guard after
the Tories failed to ask permission to canvass. With the fuss going on across
town, the Chancellor lost no time laying into Devine's main opponents the SNP.

He savaged Nat claims that North Sea oil riches could fund independence, saying:
"You can't build the future of your economy around one raw material."

And he pointed to the instability in the industry, where the price of oil has
veered over the years from 10$ to 70$ per barrel.

Brown had arrived early in Livingston for the by-election campaign triggered by
the death of MP Robin Cook.

Devine, the ex-Foreign Secretary's agent and long-time friend, has since been
given the backing of Cook's family.

And now he has the public endorsement of Labour's Prime Minister-in-waiting.

Brown himself used the opportunity to scotch weekend claims that the pension age
is to be raised to 67, insisting: "There's going to be no decision on these
things until we have had a national debate."

Labour is defending a 13,000 majority in Livingston, while Charlie Gordon is
standing for the party in Cathcart, where it has a majority of around 5,000.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.


                              174 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            October 14, 1996 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Stumbling over our state of health

BYLINE: MIKE RICHARDS

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 913 words


AH, POLITICS! Leaving aside for a moment that government is a serious business
and government services are vitally important and can affect the quality of all
our lives, one still marvels at how easy it is for government to do all the hard
things in a policy sense, but then stumble badly politically.

But, of course, politics is not a science but a game of skill and chance where
arcane rules apply. (Poker and snakes and ladders come to mind.) I have been
reminded of this again in the past couple of weeks while observing the political
roadshow called the "hospitals crisis" in this state. Four years after it came
to office, Jeff Kennett's Government has taken its first serious political hit
over the state of Victoria's public hospitals.

One of the political rules of thumb affecting government is that - in terms of
rating performance - achievement and reality count for less than the perception
of the voters; once a political perception firmly takes hold in the community it
is very difficult to shift. The perception has now virtually set that Victoria's
hospitals have been so badly affected by the Kennett Government's Budget cuts
that the standards of service for seriously ill patients have been put in
jeopardy. Put more crudely, prompted by images of patients on trolleys in
corridors, this question has crystallised in the minds of Victorians: if I get
sick, will I get a hospital bed? This is a very damaging perception for the
Government.

For a Government that was handsomely returned to office only in March, how did
this political vulnerability eventuate? Part of the answer, I believe, was given
by Professor Stephen Duckett, a former senior Victorian Health Department
administrator, last week when he said that the Kennett Government had cut too
far, too fast into the health budget in the second year of its first term. In
the first two years, some $220 million was taken out of public hospital budgets.

Bear in mind that with the state Budget in a parlous state, the Kennett
Government did not have too many options when it was first elected. To quickly
rein in the Budget deficit, the Government had to reduce spending in the two
largest spending departments: education and health.

Both of these portfolios present complex administrative, budgetary and political
problems: community expectations are high, and delivering quality services
equitably and well is difficult and expensive. For many people in the community,
government could never spend too much on school and hospital services.

Financial prudence and political realism make that an untenable approach, but
the community none the less expects (and has a right to expect) that services in
these vital areas will be excellent and that they will represent good value for
money.

In the health portfolio, the Kennett Government reduced spending, primarily in
response to the overspending that had occurred for 10 years under Labor. When Mr
Kennett's party came to office in October 1992, Victoria was - according to the
Commonwealth Grants Commission - spending some $80 a head of population more
than they needed, to provide a level of service comparable with other states and
territories. The point is that paying more than necessary for essential services
does not mean that such services are automatically provided at a higher level or
that they produce better outcomes.

The overspending occurred for several reasons. First, it was a matter of Labor
philosophy and policy to spend more on health. This was because, at the start of
the 1980s, Victoria was spending less per head than the amount the Grants
Commission assessed was necessary to provide the same level of service as the
other states and territories.

Importantly, too, the health sector unions, in some cases having affiliations
with the Labor Party, had - in an industrial relations sense - captured the
health system. This led to the entrenchment of excessive staffing and
inefficient work practices. As well, productivity in key areas of public
hospitals was declining and cost management performance was generally not good.
So this, combined with Victoria's generally perilous Budget position, meant that
the Kennett Government was right to embark on a program of cost reduction in the
health system when it came to office.

While the best political outcome may not follow a good policy, government often
knows about a problem well in advance. A second political rule of thumb is
relevant here: it takes 18 months to two years for a Government's political
vulnerability in a certain area to show up to the media and the public.

By my reckoning, the realisation that the cuts to the hospitals budget were too
severe and that there was a prospect of a hospitals crisis, was apparent to
Government insiders almost two years ago. Interestingly, in the summer of
1994-95, Jeff Kennett took the unusual, and highly publicised, step of
sidelining his Health Minister, Mrs Tehan. He said he was going to spend the
summer holidays touring the state, personally assessing the state of our
hospitals.

A final difficulty the Government has is that even if more money were to be
found tomorrow for hospitals, it would have to be taken out of some other area
of Government spending. Is it possible that the Education Minister, Mr Phil
Gude, and his sudden discovery last week of 1500 teachers in excess has
something to do with it?

* Mike Richards is associate editor of The Age. From 1982 to 1985, he was a
senior adviser to the then Premier, John Cain.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1996 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      May 26, 1986, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Work to rule by doctors irresponsible Peterson says

BYLINE: By Denise Harrington and Jonathan Ferguson Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 789 words


   Doctors would be "making a political point at the expense of patients" if
they go ahead with a plan to delay discharging patients from hospital as part of
their campaign against the proposed ban on extra billing, Premier David Peterson
said today.

He called the work-to-rule strategy devised by the Ontario Medical Association
"rather irresponsible" and said he was disappointed that doctors have taken this
approach.

Doctors "have control over entry and exit from hospitals. It appears now they
want to abuse those powers that they have. I think it's rather worrisome."

Asked if the doctors were playing with patients' health, Peterson
replied:"That's the impression you get."

He said that "presumably, they're going to force people to stay in hospital to
make their political point. That's what they're saying. That not only incurs a
lot of costs but it's hard on the patients as well. Frankly, I don't think it's
a responsible bargaining tactic."

'Medically ideal'

Peterson said he expects the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the
governing body of the medical profession, "will be very, very interested in
watching the whole exercise."

Dr. Earl Myers, president of the OMA, said yesterday the association is urging
the province's 17,000 doctors to delay discharging patients until their
condition is "medically ideal."

This would be a departure from the past practice of sending patients home early
and continuing their treatment on an outpatient basis to free up hospital beds
for other patients on waiting lists.

Myers acknowledged this tactic could "seriously inconvenience" patients waiting
for non-emergency treatment.

He said this "ideal medicine" tactic is one of a series of private protest
strategies the association's political action committee has developed to
complement the doctors' province-wide strike on Thursday and Friday.

Additional strain

Myers said yesterday that the protest tactic would place additional strain on
what he calls "a chronic shortage of hospital beds," clog up the hospital wards
and ultimately cause lengthy delays for patients requiring non-emergency
treatment.

"The doctors aren't going to continue putting themselves at risk by sending
patients home a little early," Myers said. "It's great to work to free up
precious beds when you're co-operating with the government. Well, we're not
going out on a limb any more.

"If the government wants this kind of war, all is has to do is continue
proceeding with Bill 94," which would impose a total ban on extra-billing.

Health Minister Murray Elston was unavailable for comment yesterday.

Attorney-General Ian Scott, however, said he is "surprised" that the doctors'
claim to have been releasing patients a few days early to free up hospital beds.

"And it's strange that they now intend to keep patients in hospitals," Scott
said. He added that the government would "wait and see" whether the doctors
carry out their threat while relying on the College of Physicians and the
Ontario Hospital Association to monitor the province's hospitals for any abuses.

Non-partisan

"Both these bodies are non-partisan and work closely together," he said. "If
they see patients being unnecessarily detained in hospitals, I'm sure they'll
report it."

At least one doctors' group, the 150-member Ontario Medical Reform Group, is
attacking the association for threatening to put patient care at risk.

"This strategy is insulting to the entire profession," group spokesman Dr.
Philip Berger said. "The vast majority of physicians have always practised ideal
or excellent medicine."

Berger described the strategy as "terribly unethical." The association's leaders
are playing a reckless political game using "patients as pawns," he said.

Any patient can leave hopital at any time but is asked to complete a release
form if leaving against the physician's advice.

"The association is eroding the trust contained in the patient/doctor
relationship," Berger said. "I know of no instance where a patient who was
medically unstable was released early. That just doesn't happen here."

Further sanctions

Myers refused to reveal any other unannounced protest strategies, but said the
association's leaders are continuing to meet with the troops to discuss further
sanctions.

Asked if the association wasn't in effect using patients as pawns in its war
with the Liberal government, Myers replied: "It's certainly going to mean more
patients will be seriously inconvenienced, but we're not going to continue
working with government during a war."

New Democratic Party leader Bob Rae described the doctors' tactic as "an
incredible abuse of power.

"It's a totally irresponsible strategy."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1986 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              176 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          February 27, 1999, Saturday

Hospital group fined over 1998 campaign ads

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation must pay $ 5,500 for failing to file
campaign expenditure reports required by law.

As the March 16 city election draws near, an issue left over from last year's
election has been settled: The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation failed to
report campaign expenditures as required by state law.

The foundation placed political advertisements in local newspapers, including
the Times, and distributed a flier to oppose a referendum question on the March
17, 1998, ballot.

But the foundation did not file public reports of those "independent
expenditures" as required by Florida law, according to a Florida Elections
Commission consent order issued this week.

Some of the ads failed to include the required designation "paid political
advertisement." Some failed to state that the ads were placed "independently of
any candidate or committee."

The foundation agreed in the order to pay a $ 5,500 fine to the Elections
Commission, settling the complaint. The Elections Commission could have imposed
a maximum fine of $ 11,000.

Then-city manager Costa Vatikiotis filed the complaint, writing in a file
memorandum that he felt he should do so to fulfill his duty to uphold the law.
Vatikiotis wrote the charter amendment that the foundation was campaigning
against, and the city ran its own ads supporting the amendment.

The referendum question, which the voters passed, amended the city's charter to
add some conditions to future leases of the city-owned hospital property. It was
one battle in the three-year war between the city, the foundation and a public
financing authority.

Because the amendment passed, new hospital leases must require that the
non-profit hospital foundation get voters' approval before changing its mission.

The foundation's leaders believed they were not required to file campaign
spending reports because they made telephone calls to the Elections Commission,
they have said.

As to the absence of the required disclaimers, "though the foundation
technically failed to meet the statutory political disclaimer requirements in
its political advertising advocating opposition to the issue referendum, the
foundation did not intend to violate the statue," according to the order.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              177 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

PM's global worming - 50 more debates

BYLINE: Phillip Coorey Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 656 words


FEDERAL Labor MPs and candidates in marginal seats have been instructed to
challenge their Coalition rivals to town hall-style debates on health policy to
capitalise on what the government believes was a strong victory by Kevin Rudd
over Tony Abbott in yesterday's debate.

Challenges were issued within hours of the completion of the leaders' debate in
which the viewing public on two commercial networks - whose reactions were
tracked by the "worm" - awarded the points to the Prime Minister.

In one letter obtained by the Herald, the Labor candidate for the south-western
Sydney seat of Macarthur, Nick Bleasdale, challenges his Liberal rival, Russell
Matheson, to a debate in the next four to six weeks to explain the Coalition's
plan for local health and hospitals.

He says the debate showed Mr Rudd "has a plan to deliver better hospitals for
working families" whereas "the only plan Tony Abbott has is to criticise,
complain and be negative, he has no plan to improve hospitals".

Labor's candidate for Macquarie, Sue Templeman, also challenged her Liberal
rival, the MP Louise Markus.

Sources said similar challenges were expected in up to 50 marginal seats, both
Coalition and Labor-held, a clear sign Labor believes its policy is a vote
winner.

During yesterday's 75-minute debate, Mr Rudd conceded that small regional and
rural hospitals might have to be given block funding grants to keep them afloat
should they not be be able to survive on his new activity-based funding formula.

"Of course, we would look at a form of national block funding which was able to
underpin the continuation of smaller rural hospitals in the future," Mr Rudd
said.

Mr Abbott has not released his health policy other than to promise that
hospitals in Queensland and NSW would be run by local boards. But yesterday he
signalled an extra 3500 hospital beds nationwide and did not rule out using
unspent stimulus money to pay for them.

His main thrust was to attack Mr Rudd and his policy in which the Commonwealth
would fund 60 per cent of public hospitals and 100 per cent of primary and aged
care services. Public hospitals would be run by local health networks funded
from Canberra but administered by the states.

Mr Abbott criticised the policy as overly bureaucratic and, in a theme to be
repeated throughout this election year, said the Rudd government did not have
the wherewithal to deliver it.

"Anyone can make promises," he said. "The hard part is delivering on them and
this is where Mr Rudd has so consistently failed."

Mr Abbott said the government had a poor record on service delivery, citing the
insulation program and school halls, so should not be trusted "to run the most
important institutions of all, namely public hospitals".

The debate was often acrimonious. Mr Rudd attacked Mr Abbott's "rolling tidal
wave of negativity". "The time has come. Let's work together on this Tony," he
said.

He accused Mr Abbott, when health minister, of ripping $1 billion from public
hospitals. "I'll tell you what, Kevin," Mr Abbott said. "You stop telling lies
about me and I will work constructively with you, that's a fair deal."

TV viewers marked down Mr Abbott, and spin doctors on both sides agreed he erred
by entering a policy debate without a policy. "He turned up to a gun fight with
a pocket knife," said one official.

After the debate, the premiers held a telephone hook-up. Showing no sign of the
supposed bad blood between them, the NSW Premier, Kristina Keneally, declared Mr
Rudd the "clear winner" who "clearly understands the challenges we face in the
future with a growing and ageing population".

The plan needs all state and territory leaders to agree if it is to succeed.
Yesterday, he left open the possibility of a full funding takeover, saying a
referendum would give him this power. Today he will be in Perth to lobby the
West Australian Premier, Colin Barnett. On Friday, Wayne Swan will lobby
treasurers in Canberra.

Editorial â[#x20ac]" Page 14

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: By John Shakespeare

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Polls to temper hospitals debate;
Federal Labor on tenterhooks as Tasmania and SA vote

BYLINE: MICHELLE GRATTAN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 458 words


THE political atmospherics for Tuesday's health and hospitals debate between
Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and Opposition Leader Tony Abbott will be influenced
by the outcomes of today's South Australian and Tasmanian elections.

Strong swings against Labor are expected in both states, but a Liberal win in
either would be a blow for Mr Rudd's hospital negotiations with the states.

There will be sighs of relief in Canberra if Labor hangs on even as minority
governments.

Mr Rudd said yesterday health and hospital reform should go beyond party
politics. "This is just crying out for change," he said.

He said these would be tough elections for both state governments, which had
been in power for some time.

Tuesday's debate will be moderated by the ABC's Chris Uhlmann, with a 10-member
panel of senior press gallery journalists asking questions.

It will be held at lunchtime, and fed to television stations that want it.

Mr Rudd proposed the debate on Thursday as one of three election debates. The
opposition made an unsuccessful bid for it to be held at night, and is calling
for three debates in the campaign itself.

Mr Abbott is under political pressure to outline more details of what he would
do on health and hospitals, but is not being drawn on whether he will put
anything new on Tuesday.

"What's his plan to fix up health for the future?" Mr Rudd said. "Our plan's
clear . . . We don't have the alternative plan yet."

Mr Abbott said: "My job is to scrutinise. Mr Rudd's job is to explain. My job is
to ask the questions on behalf of the Australian people. Mr Rudd's job is to
give clear, comprehensible, simple answers."

Asked whether his job wasn't to have an alternative policy, Mr Abbott said that
"well before the next election people will know exactly what we propose for
public hospitals".

Mr Abbott said Labor should stop telling lies about the Howard government's
health record.

"I was proud to be the best friend that Medicare ever had when I was health
minister," he said.

On their regular Friday morning TV encounter, Mr Abbott accused Deputy Prime
Minister Julia Gillard of telling lies about his health record. But on another
program, he said Ms Gillard was probably a more effective and "more authentic"
politician than Mr Rudd.

Mr Rudd again accused state health bureaucrats of "running fear campaigns
because they are frightened of fundamental changes".

The Prime Minister will continue his talks with premiers to sell his scheme with
a trip to Perth next week to see Liberal Premier Colin Barnett.

While Mr Abbott is preparing for the debate, he is in another sort of training.
He has entered for the iron man triathlon at Port Macquarie tomorrow week. The
events are a 3.8-kilometre swim, a 180-kilometre bike ride and a 42-kilometre
run.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 19, 2010 Monday

Afghans criticize release of three Italian medics

LENGTH: 561 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 19 April

[Presenter] Some legal experts have said there is a political motive behind the
release of the Italian nationals [arrested in connection with an alleged plot to
kill the governor of |Helmand Province]. The experts say if the government of
Afghanistan has once again released the Italian nationals for political motives,
then the rule of law in Afghanistan will be questioned. The National Directorate
of Security (NDS) has said it has not found the Italian nationals to be guilty.
Meanwhile, some residents of Helmand Province have criticized the release of the
Italian nationals.

[Correspondent] The release of Italian nationals by the government of
Afghanistan has drawn huge criticism. Independent reporters of Herat Province
and residents of Helmand Province accused the government of irresponsibility
over the release of the Italian nationals.

[Unidentified young man, apparently resident of Helmand Province, in Pashto]
They have released the detained three Italian nationals in return for dollars.
What happened to the mines and other explosives [said to have been kept at the
hospital]?

[Unidentified man, apparently a resident of Helmand Province, in Pashto] The
Italians have been released. I believe it would have been good if they had not
been released but executed.

[Correspondent] The NDS has said the incident [alleged placing of explosives
inside Emergency Hospital] was orchestrated from the other side of the border
and that the results of investigations have found the three Italian nationals
and five Afghans innocent.

[Sayed Ansari, the spokesman for NDS] One of the local employees of the
hospital, who was an authorized person, has pleaded guilty, while five locals
and three Italian nationals, who were also workers at the hospital, were
released by security forces yesterday after pleading not guilty.

[Mohammad Golab Mangal, the governor of Helmand Province, speaking in archive
footage] We have ample evidence and documents for the step we have taken which
show they were involved in terrorist incidents.

[Correspondent] Some legal experts have described the release of the Italian
nationals as a political game.

[Nasrollah Stanakzai, a Kabul University lecturer, captioned] They have, in one
way or another, committed a crime, because explosives were found inside a
hospital that has its own directors. They are guilty of dereliction of duty and
an investigation should be launched into it. And if it is a lie, why was the
liar not prosecuted?

[Correspondent] The experts said the hospital was being used for suspicious
activities and the authorities of the hospital used to operate outside their
authority.

[Stanakzai] The hospital had intervened in political issues since the killing of
late Ajmal Naqshbandi [an Afghan journalist beheaded by Taleban]. It is not the
task of a hospital to strike deal with the Taleban for the release of
journalists. It is unprincipled. The task of a hospital is very clear.

[Correspondent] Three Italians and their six Afghan colleagues, who used to work
at the Emergency Hospital of Helmand, were detained on charges of orchestrating
terrorist acts and supporting the Taleban, but after eight days, eight of them,
including three Italians, were released, and one Afghan national is still in the
NDS captivity.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 19 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday

Parking fee explanation disgraceful, advocate says

BYLINE: SHAWN BERRY LEGISLATURE BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 342  words


FREDERICTON - News that $5,000 from parking fees collected at New Brunswick
hospitals was used to attend a political fundraiser is disgraceful, A seniors
advocate says.

Cécile Cassista said on Wednesday that the Horizon Health Network's explanation
that money collected from parking fees is used to pay for participation in
community events should prompt a new look at the burden those levies impose on
users.

"People can't afford to go visit their loved ones in the hospital, they can't
afford that ...

"It's very costly," said Cassista, executive director of the Coalition for
Seniors and Nursing Home Residents' Rights.

"Every day I've gone to a hospital I've had to pay, even for a medical checkup.
That's unacceptable."

Cassista said that until now, she, like many others, never stopped to consider
where the money was going, but she said she wouldn't have thought it was leaving
the hospital budget.

"In hindsight, I would have thought it was going back into the hospital sector,
into the health-care system. But now I hear they're buying tickets for political
parties, that's absolutely no question they shouldn't be doing that."

An editorial in the Canadian Medical Association Journal in November said
parking fees at hospitals flout the founding principles of the Canada Health
Act, which states Canadians should have access to health care without financial
or other barriers.

The editorial, by interim editor-in-chief Dr. Rajendra Kale, states the charges
interfere with patient care and should be dropped by Canadian hospitals.

Horizon Health recently ruled that parking fees will be introduced at the
regional hospital in Miramichi.

Cassista said that if parking fees are going to remain in place, health
authorities should remain accountable for every penny they spend.

"There are better places for that money," she said. She would like to see that
money go to help home-care support.

"Parking is like a cash cow to them, obviously, if they're just handing it out
for political rallies," Cassista said. "I think it's just disgraceful, quite
frankly."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2012 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 23, 2010 Thursday

Montreal's super-hospital saga is a historic farce;
The plans to replace crumbling old institutions have taken two decades and have
gone absolutely nowhere

BYLINE: ANDRÉ PICARD

SECTION: GLOBE LIFE COLUMN; SECOND OPINION; Pg. L6

LENGTH: 915 words


apicard@globeandmail.com

It took 22 years in the early 17th century to build the Taj Mahal, the
awe-inspiring white marble mausoleum in Agra, India.

It will take longer than that for Quebec to build a utilitarian hospital in
downtown Montreal in the 21st century.

The Taj Mahal is a glowing symbol of eternal love.

The "Taj Hôpital" is a shameful symbol of political dithering.

In the latest installment of the absurdist tale, Quebec Treasury Board president
Michelle Courchesne announced Monday that construction of the Centre hospitalier
de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM) will begin next spring and be completed by
2019. The tentative price: $2.1-billion.

Well, actually she announced that there will eventually be another announcement
because bids have yet to be tendered. Not to mention that there are no final
blueprints.

And so it goes.

The idea of building a Montreal "super-hospital" - merging archaic institutions
scattered around the city into one state-of-the-art facility - was first floated
in 1991.

It was an eminently wise plan, particularly in a city where most health-care
facilities were built decades - and in some cases centuries - ago.

But in the health field there is no idea, however sensible, that cannot be
bogged down by bureaucracy and perverted by politics. The Quebec super-hospital
saga is a case in point.

(In the interest of brevity, I will leave out names and political affiliations:
Suffice it to say there have been four premiers and six ministers of health
involved in the file to date, and the Liberals and Péquistes have handled it in
equally bumbling style.)

In 1995, Quebec's Health Minister announced a merger of the three "French"
hospitals - Hôtel-Dieu, Notre-Dame et Saint-Luc - to create CHUM. A similar
process happened with the "English" hospitals - Montreal General, Royal
Victoria, Montreal Chest Institute, Montreal Neurological Hospital and Lachine
Hospital - and that was called the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC).

In 1999, it was finally decided that CHUM and MUHC should be more than virtual
institutions. They would become bricks-and-mortar "super-hospitals."

Then the real jockeying began. Where would the facilities be built? What would
happen with the existing hospital properties? How many beds would each super-
hospital have? And so on.

Forests were felled and tens of millions of dollars spent to produce studies,
including a 2003 commission of inquiry headed by former prime minister Brian
Mulroney and former Quebec premier Daniel Johnson.

Back then, the super-hospitals were going to be built and operating by 2010. And
CHUM was going to cost $850-million.

But a shovel in the ground would prove to be a pipe dream.

One of the most politically vicious battles was about the future site of CHUM.
It came down to 1000 St-Denis St. (in the heart of downtown) or 6000 St. Denis
St. (in tony Outremont).

There is enough intrigue in those choices to fill a book - and, in fact, a book
has been written.

The travails of MUHC, by contrast, were minor. All they had to deal with was
contaminated land and angry neighbours near the planned construction site in
Notre-Dame-de-Grâce.

And, oh yeah, the costly foot-dragging of indecisive political leaders.

Plans to have the new facilities built as private-public partnerships (PPPs) -
an approach in which private enterprise builds the hospitals then leases them
back to government over a 30-year period - added to the controversy and cost
and, in the end, private enterprise will play a token financing role so the
government can save face.

The 772-bed CHUM will cost $2.1-billion (don't bet on that being the final
number). There will also be a $470-million CHUM research centre. Not to mention
the $500-million upgrade of Sainte-Justine, the "French" pediatric hospital.

MUHC will cost about $2.2-billion, including a new 500-bed facility, a new
Montreal Children's Hospital and extensive renovations to the 332-bed Montreal
General Hospital.

That's $5.3-billion and counting.

This may seem like profligate spending, but all these facilities are needed and
overdue. Quebec's flagship hospitals are crumbling, inefficient and increasingly
unsafe. (It's no coincidence that Quebec has an inordinate number of hospital
-acquired infections such as C. difficile.)

Quebec's political leaders should be getting credit for their bold investments
in health care. Instead, they are getting derision because they took too long to
do the right thing. They lost sight of who really matters: the public.

There is an endless list of excuses trotted out each time a minister makes a new
announcement and revises the timeline for construction. But the bottom line is
that these hospitals should have been up and running at least a decade ago.

The delays served the interests of property developers, construction companies,
donors to political parties and various interest groups within the health
system, not the needs of the sick and injured who need hospital care.

It's been two decades since planning began, and now we're being told it could
take many more years to complete the super-hospitals (MUHC 2014; CHUM 2019).
That no premier or health minister ever demanded that the shuffling of paper end
and the roar of construction equipment begin is a disgrace plain and simple.

In Canada, we talk a good game about patient-centred care. But it will never be
a reality unless it becomes a priority and a guiding principle from the upper
echelons of power on down.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 23, 1988, Friday, City Edition

Candidates finish second in this race

BYLINE: COLLINS CONNER

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 610 words

DATELINE: SPRING HILL



SPRING HILL - The candidates were lined up at HCA/Oak Hill Hospital    Thursday
when the public address system cackled to life and a voice    invited hospital
employees to meet the political leaders.

     Almost instantly, hospital workers from every department swarmed    into
the cafeteria and threaded through a line of political candidates.

     "This is more people than we've seen in one place during the    entire
campaign " several office seekers said.

     But the folks at Oak Hill weren't flocking to the cafeteria out of
political curiosity. And they weren't drawn there by the free punch and
cookies.

     They whipped past the food; they "how do you do-ed" their way    through
the candidates and headed for a long metal table at the far end    of the
cafeteria.

     That table held their paychecks.

     Vince Vanni, Oak Hill's public relations director, said the    coupling of
cashier and candidates was his idea.

     "All of the candidates we invited agreed to be here," Vanni said.    "The
least we could do is make sure people are here for them."

     The people were there.

     They dropped by the cafeteria on their way to work their 3-to-11    shifts.

 They dropped by the cafeteria when they finished their 7-to-3    shifts. If
they worked the 11-to-7 shift, they dropped in during their    free time. They
left the cafeteria with a fistful of campaign    literature in one hand and a
Manila envelope in the other.

     Rena Abblett, nursing administration secretary, handed out nearly    200 of
those envelopes, with yellow payroll checks inside. She had    stacks of the
envelopes on the metal table, sorted by shifts and    duties.

     Another hospital supervisor distributed paychecks to about 275    other
workers.

     But, the political candidates weren't short-changed.

     "Most are in too big a hurry to get their money to do much    talking" with
office seekers, said School Board candidate Leland    McKeown. "But I've given
out more brochures here than anyplace else    during the campaign."

     County Commission candidate Greg Copeland also considered the event    a
success. There wasn't much conversation with voters, he said. "It    seems the
employees are mainly interested in getting to the end of the    line" where the
payroll table stood, Copeland said. But Copeland    provided the speeding
greeters a folksy letter, which he hoped they    would read later.

     Bill Short, a candidate for supervisor of elections, didn't try to
engage the hospital workers in long conversations. As they passed his    spot in
the candidate lineup, he whooped, "Please help the needy "    and handed out his
brochures.

     Near the payroll table sat the steering committee of the Good    Government
Group, the hospital's political action committee which    sponsored Thursday's
coffee.

     Even steering committee members didn't spend much time with the
candidates. "I stopped to talk to one candidate, but the (hospital    employees)
behind me were in a hurry, so I cut short the    conversation," said steering
committee member Sandra Martin.

     The steering committee ultimately will issue recommendations on    which
candidates voters should select in the November election. "We'll    read the
literature and sit down and talk about what we liked or didn't    like" about
the candidates, Mrs. Martin said.



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              183 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                              June 10, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shortage of beds in NHS a problem, but political parties do not have answer;
Yousay IN YOUR OPINION...

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 523 words


IHAVE to say that none of the political with the percentage of the GDP level to
be apportioned to the NHS, leaving the experts to determine the "how, what and
when".

By experts I mean the medical profession, nurses and some other allied
professionals.

Obviously district general hospitals do require a CEO, financial and personnel
expertise but this should be divorced from the political whims of the day.

Generally speaking I have no confidence in any political party where the NHS is
concerned!

Most of the problems the NHS is experiencing today can be linked back to a white
paper called "Patients First" implemented in the early 1980s, where the concept
of "procurers and providers" (commonly called by staff at that time "pimps and
prostitutes") was first established.

This means healthcare revenue was given to health authorities, who then
purchased healthcare on behalf of the sick in their catchment area from
providers (NHS trusts and GPs).

Today the Government, not the Welsh Assembly, are intending to give the funding
to GP practices who are to purchase healthcare for their patients from hospitals
when they are required. How daft is that? GP practices have no experience of
contracts, contract procedure or that type of financial management and control.

Obviously buying in that kind of contract control will result in a cost
explosion for each GP practice and less money for patient care.

Also at that time there was a major emphasis put on improving hospital
efficiency. There were two ways Government tried to tackle "efficiency". One was
"quality of care" and the other was "bed occupancy". I won't attempt to get
involved in the debate on what is quality of care other than to say that this
was in the main about outcomes following patient treatment in terms of "years of
life" or "life in those years".

With bed occupancy, improving efficiency was seen as improving from 60% to 70%
as it was in the 1980s to 85% to 95%, as it appears to be now.

A great idea if you are talking about hotels but not so good for hospitals when
there are large demand increases attributable to winter health problems which
require extra beds.

In the 1980s South Glamorgan Health Authority produced a plan predicting
healthcare demand that would be required for the 21st century for this area. The
plan, which identified a population increase in the area and proposed three
district general hospitals and five neighbourhood hospitals, would be required.

The costing for this plan with all the additional staff which would be required,
meant that this plan was set aside and I presume that the Welsh Office at that
time would not fund the proposals in this plan.

Although I must admit that some of the neighbourhood hospitals have been built -
Barry, St David's and currently the new CRI.

However St David's Hospital is a PFI hospital owned and run by a private
consortium. I would suggest that the failure to build the third DGH and the
reduction of bed numbers in the area due to the many hospital closures over the
last 25 years are the major cause of long waiting lists while also acknowledging
bed blocking is a problem.

¦ Doug Bragg Cathays, Cardiff

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Measuring bed occupancy is more relevant to hotels than hospitals...

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Elahi condemns political victimization of Shaukat Khanum Hospital

SECTION: Vol. XXXVI No. 215

LENGTH: 322  words


Deputy Prime Minister and Pakistan Muslim League senior central leader Ch Parvez
Elahi has said that N-League should not make Imran Khan's established welfare
institution like Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital target of its traditional
political victimization.

In a statement issued here Thursday, Ch Parvez Elahi said that targeting a
hospital for political vengeance is highly deplorable and the greatest moral
degradation on the part of N-League. He said politicking against most modern
hospital rendering great services to the cancer patients is highly condemnable
and worst example of resorting to such low level tactics and grave violation of
moral and social values.

Ch Parvez Elahi said that Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital is a non-political
welfare institution rendering healthcare services to the people where millions
of cancer patients are provided most modern treatment and highest standard of
facilities and deserving patients are even treated free.

He said that N-League campaign of allegations against Shaukat Khanum Cancer
Hospital perhaps may not harmful to Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaaf chief Imran Khan
but would certainly cause irreparable loss to the cancer patients from all over
the country in particular the deserving poor patients who are treated free of
charges.

He asked the N-League leadership to discard such low and negative tactics. He
said the mishandling of the hospitals and the patients in the Punjab ,
deteriorated situation in the Govt. hospital due to their faulty policies and
the bad treatment being meted out to the patients and the doctors are very sad
reflection on their tall claims of "rendering of services to the people".

He further said that if a welfare institution is rendering such invaluable
services to the cancer patients, it should not be stopped from working and
vengeance of political opposition of its founder should not be taken from the
most modern and the greatest cancer hospital.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            March 14, 2009 Saturday
                              Tampabay.com Edition

THE BUZZ: FLORIDA POLITICS

SECTION: THE BUZZ: FLORIDA POLITICS

LENGTH: 375 words


Cashing In: Lawmakers rake in CCE money

In the latest election cycle, dozens of Florida legislators raked in $6 million
in special-interest campaign money and spent a good deal of it on themselves for
meals, rental cars, plane trips and hotels.

Some lawmakers are feeding at the trough of contributors, enjoying expensive
dinners at upscale restaurants with donors' money at a time when one of every 10
Floridians is on food stamps. Others are churning cash from one political
committee to another, using it to finance direct contributions and attack ads
for other candidates, thereby strengthening their own clout in a virtually
untraceable shell game.

Some findings of a Times/Herald report:

-The Hospital Corporation of America, a major hospital chain seeking to change
the way more than $1 billion in hospital money is awarded each year, donated the
most money to the committees: $269,500 in the past two years. HCA also donated
an additional $865,000 to other committees and to individual lawmaker campaigns
in the same two-year period.

-U.S. Sugar Corp. of Clewiston, which has hired 41 lobbyists in seeking to sell
much of its land to the state, is next with $226,260. It donated an additional
$365,000 to lawmakers and other political groups this election cycle.

-AT&T, which is seeking favorable phone legislation this year, was the No. 3
contributor with $151,500.

Story here.
(http://www.tampabay.com/news/politics/legislature/article984087.ece)

Posted by Alex Leary at 9:18:39 PM

* * *

Cretul finds first test in Robaina. Did he pass?

Rep. Larry Cretul has heard the jokes about his accidental status as speaker of
the Florida House, but with a single act this week, he left no doubt who is in
charge.

On Wednesday, Cretul stripped Miami Republican Julio Robaina as a committee
chairman for undermining a bill that was a priority of the attorney general.

Cretul's power play struck some as heavy-handed, while others said it was the
right medicine.

"When you get tested, you must take action," said Rep. Rich Glorioso, a Plant
City Republican and retired Air Force colonel. "That's the basic rule of
leadership. Otherwise you lose control." (story here)
(http://www.tampabay.com/news/politics/legislature/article983853.ece)

Posted by Alex Leary at 3:51:43 PM

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BLOG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2009 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday

Chinese political advisors consulted about medical reform

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 163 words


BEIJING -- China's political advisors on Tuesday put forward proposals on
reforms of public hospitals and medical insurance.

A statement issued after a meeting of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee, the country's top political
advisory body, said attendees agreed that despite progress, ordinary people
still find medical services scarce and expensive.

They suggested changes to public hospital management and a new system of payment
and benefits for medical staff to free hospitals from dependency on revenue from
drug sales, said the statement.

Community medicine should be another priority with cooperation between urban
hospitals and community clinics, according to the meeting, which was chaired by
Yu Zhengsheng, chairman of the CPPCC National Committee.

Vice Premier Liu Yandong attended the meeting and admitted that medical reform
is at a tough stage. She promised that the government would make basic medical
services a priority.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            April 4, 2007 Wednesday

Renewed neuro call as hospital saved

BYLINE:  liz perkins

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 344 words


Calls have been made for Labour to safeguard the future of Morriston Hospital's
neurosurgery unit ahead of May's Assembly election.

Ian Titherington, Plaid's Assembly candidate for Swansea West, has made the call
following Labour's surprise decision to keep the doors of Llandudno Hospital in
North Wales, open.

He said a similar pledge should also be made over the future of the Swansea site
ahead of  May 3.

He added: "As far as I am concerned, what is good enough for Llandudno is good
enough for Morriston and unless Labour are prepared to make a similar
commitment, then we all know what will happen to the unit after the election, if
Labour regain power."

Bosses at Assembly body Health Commission Wales are not expected to make a final
decision until July on whether Swansea will remain home to the neurosurgery
service.

It was put back following a last-minute call by Assembly Health Minister Brian
Gibbons for Health Commission Wales to look again at the plan to centralise the
service in Cardiff.

Mr Titherington said he feared Labour's failure to promise to safeguard the unit
would lead to its closure when a decision was finally made.

He said : "Yesterday's announcement on Llandudno Hospital is a purely political
move by Labour, in order to try to hold onto their Aberconwy Assembly seat from
the challenge of Plaid's Gareth Jones.

"It shows that behind the scenes, Labour are pulling all the strings with
hospital reorganisation.

"This makes a mockery of Labour's claim that all these decisions are non-
political."

But a Labour Party spokeswoman said the decision over the Morriston Hospital
site was non-political.

She added: "It's an independent joint board decision and they are going to
report when they are ready.

"We are not saying we are reprieving Llandudno Hospital - it was never in any
danger of closing.

"It's going through consultation at the moment. Politically, we have no input."

Former nuero patient Ian Alexander, of Treboeth, said: "I think a lot of people
feel a decision should be made this side of May 3. Then they can see where we
stand.''

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Illawarra Mercury

                            August 5, 2017 Saturday
                           Print & Internet Editions

Rorris queries big political donations by private health corporations

BYLINE: Lisa Wachsmuth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 443 words


South Coast Labour Council secretary Arthur Rorris is questioning why some of
the nation's private health corporations are channelling millions of dollars to
a ''political party with a privatisation agenda''.

Mr Rorris said Australian Electoral Commission data revealed that health and
pharmaceutical companies had forked out more than $8 million in political
donations in the past decade.

He said the vast majority of the donations went to the Liberal Party with Ramsay
Health Care - which operates Wollongong, Figtree, Lawrence Hargrave and Nowra
private hospitals - one of the biggest donors.

Read more: 'It's time to abandon plans to privatise Shellharbour Hospital'

He said from 2006 to 2016 Ramsay Health Care had donated around $750,000 to the
Liberals at a federal and state level, while $1.7 million had been donated by
Paul Ramsay Holdings.

Sonic Healthcare, BUPA Australia, Swisse Vitamins and Novartis Pharmaceuticals
were among the other major political donors.

''No reasonable person could come to the conclusion that big health corporations
donate to politicians for our health, they're doing it for their own
interests,'' Mr Rorris said.

''Corporations see political donations as their way to get access to politicians
and promote their agenda - and their agenda is clearly to increase their market
share.''

Mr Rorris said this raised ''serious questions'' about privatisation of public
health assets and services.

"So here we have the biggest health corporations in the country donating
millions of dollars to politicians and by some remarkable coincidence the NSW
Liberal Government decides it might be a good time to sell off our public
hospitals,'' he said.

''In this region the owners of Shellharbour Hospital - the community - haven't
even been permitted to view all the tendering and contractual material around a
proposed public-private partnership (PPP).

''How cosy is it that we see political donations by health companies and also
see a privatisation process which the community does not have access to?''

However a Ramsay Health Care spokeswoman said the company donated money to many
organisations and causes across Australia.

Its founder, the late Paul Ramsay, was well known for his philanthropy.

She said this year the company would return over $80 million to the Paul Ramsay
Foundation, a charity which funded health and education projects across
Australia.

''In the last 10 years Ramsay Health Care donated funds to both Liberal
($750,000) and other parties including the Labor Party (over $300,000),'' she
said.

She said Ramsay had ''limited interest'' in the NSW Government's PPP hospital
proposals and ''at this stage'' was not participating.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Illawarra Newspapers Holding Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Illawarra Mercury

                            August 5, 2017 Saturday
                           Print & Internet Editions

Rorris queries big political donations by private health corporations

BYLINE: Lisa Wachsmuth

SECTION: REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 443 words


South Coast Labour Council secretary Arthur Rorris is questioning why some of
the nation's private health corporations are channelling millions of dollars to
a ''political party with a privatisation agenda''.

Mr Rorris said Australian Electoral Commission data revealed that health and
pharmaceutical companies had forked out more than $8 million in political
donations in the past decade.

He said the vast majority of the donations went to the Liberal Party with Ramsay
Health Care - which operates Wollongong, Figtree, Lawrence Hargrave and Nowra
private hospitals - one of the biggest donors.

Read more: 'It's time to abandon plans to privatise Shellharbour Hospital'

He said from 2006 to 2016 Ramsay Health Care had donated around $750,000 to the
Liberals at a federal and state level, while $1.7 million had been donated by
Paul Ramsay Holdings.

Sonic Healthcare, BUPA Australia, Swisse Vitamins and Novartis Pharmaceuticals
were among the other major political donors.

''No reasonable person could come to the conclusion that big health corporations
donate to politicians for our health, they're doing it for their own
interests,'' Mr Rorris said.

''Corporations see political donations as their way to get access to politicians
and promote their agenda - and their agenda is clearly to increase their market
share.''

Mr Rorris said this raised ''serious questions'' about privatisation of public
health assets and services.

"So here we have the biggest health corporations in the country donating
millions of dollars to politicians and by some remarkable coincidence the NSW
Liberal Government decides it might be a good time to sell off our public
hospitals,'' he said.

''In this region the owners of Shellharbour Hospital - the community - haven't
even been permitted to view all the tendering and contractual material around a
proposed public-private partnership (PPP).

''How cosy is it that we see political donations by health companies and also
see a privatisation process which the community does not have access to?''

However a Ramsay Health Care spokeswoman said the company donated money to many
organisations and causes across Australia.

Its founder, the late Paul Ramsay, was well known for his philanthropy.

She said this year the company would return over $80 million to the Paul Ramsay
Foundation, a charity which funded health and education projects across
Australia.

''In the last 10 years Ramsay Health Care donated funds to both Liberal
($750,000) and other parties including the Labor Party (over $300,000),'' she
said.

She said Ramsay had ''limited interest'' in the NSW Government's PPP hospital
proposals and ''at this stage'' was not participating.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Illawarra Newspapers Holding Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Illawarra Mercury

                            August 5, 2017 Saturday
                           Internet & Print Editions

Rorris queries big political donations by private health corporations

BYLINE: Lisa Wachsmuth

LENGTH: 443 words


South Coast Labour Council secretary Arthur Rorris is questioning why some of
the nation's private health corporations are channelling millions of dollars to
a ''political party with a privatisation agenda''.

Mr Rorris said Australian Electoral Commission data revealed that health and
pharmaceutical companies had forked out more than $8 million in political
donations in the past decade.

He said the vast majority of the donations went to the Liberal Party with Ramsay
Health Care - which operates Wollongong, Figtree, Lawrence Hargrave and Nowra
private hospitals - one of the biggest donors.

Read more: 'It's time to abandon plans to privatise Shellharbour Hospital'

He said from 2006 to 2016 Ramsay Health Care had donated around $750,000 to the
Liberals at a federal and state level, while $1.7 million had been donated by
Paul Ramsay Holdings.

Sonic Healthcare, BUPA Australia, Swisse Vitamins and Novartis Pharmaceuticals
were among the other major political donors.

''No reasonable person could come to the conclusion that big health corporations
donate to politicians for our health, they're doing it for their own
interests,'' Mr Rorris said.

''Corporations see political donations as their way to get access to politicians
and promote their agenda - and their agenda is clearly to increase their market
share.''

Mr Rorris said this raised ''serious questions'' about privatisation of public
health assets and services.

"So here we have the biggest health corporations in the country donating
millions of dollars to politicians and by some remarkable coincidence the NSW
Liberal Government decides it might be a good time to sell off our public
hospitals,'' he said.

''In this region the owners of Shellharbour Hospital - the community - haven't
even been permitted to view all the tendering and contractual material around a
proposed public-private partnership (PPP).

''How cosy is it that we see political donations by health companies and also
see a privatisation process which the community does not have access to?''

However a Ramsay Health Care spokeswoman said the company donated money to many
organisations and causes across Australia.

Its founder, the late Paul Ramsay, was well known for his philanthropy.

She said this year the company would return over $80 million to the Paul Ramsay
Foundation, a charity which funded health and education projects across
Australia.

''In the last 10 years Ramsay Health Care donated funds to both Liberal
($750,000) and other parties including the Labor Party (over $300,000),'' she
said.

She said Ramsay had ''limited interest'' in the NSW Government's PPP hospital
proposals and ''at this stage'' was not participating.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Illawarra Newspapers Holding Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                         Drogheda Independent (Ireland)

                                February 1, 2012

Campaign to save Cottage goes on

SECTION:

LENGTH: 618 words


I would like to request a right to reply to the damaging, inaccurate and in
particular your front page banner headline regarding the Drogheda Cottage
Hospital on Wednesday 25th. January 2012.

May I be so bold to put it to you, that as a working member of the Save the
Cottage Hospital committee, your front-page banner headline was 'outrageous'.

I contacted your office on Wednesday morning to complain about such a negative
banner headline and the inaccuracies contained in your reporting on the march
and rally.

I, as a member of the Save the Cottage Hospital committee was shocked that any
print media would be so callous in going to print with such a one-sided version
of events and may I also say with an obvious political influence and undertone.

I stand behind our decision to only allow Louth TDS who would sign our pledge
the opportunity to address the assembled crowd.

This pledge was a decision taken by a large majority of our committee and how to
administer the pledge a protocol was agreed.

It was quite a basic protocol, any TD who would not sign our pledge would not be
afforded the opportunity to address those assembled, to give a twisted version
of what the Government intend to do.

Save the Drogheda Hospital Group is made up of a group of people who are
concerned about the welfare and continuing care of the current and future
residents of the hospital.

As it happens there are people on the committee who are members of political
parties, such as Fianna Fail, Fine Gael, Labour, Sinn Fein, Socialist party and
Independents and more who only have a passing interest in politics.

Up to 2000 people marched in support of continuing the public services at the
Cottage Hospital.

I thank them for their participation and say to them 'please continue your
support to the Save the Cottage Hospital during this difficult time.

'We must and will redouble our efforts and personally I feel it's about time all
of us stood up for those most vulnerable in our community and say STOP'.

As regards the three Louth TDS who are now enjoying their moment of glory and
putting a political spin on the events at the rally held on Saturday 21st.
January 2012, I say shame on you, you are letting the people down.

Up to 2000 locals marched to save the Drogheda Cottage Hospital and as paid
national politicians you should listen to those who voted for you.

Minister of State, Fergus O'dowd T.D., Deputy Peter Fitzpatrick T.D. and Deputy
Gerald Nash T.D. who in my view, attempted to hijack our rally by ignoring our
protocol and commandeering our microphone in an attempt to use it to their own
political point scoring advantage. They presented themselves one after another
on our platform when they had no intention of signing our pledge!

We will not be deflected by anyone who puts out a political spin in an effort to
tarnish, by innuendo, the good name of many of the march and rally organising
committee.

The committee is quite a large one and we will redouble our efforts to highlight
the plight of the Cottage Hospital's current and future residents.

It is incumbent on all concerned people to stand firm as without local
solidarity the cause to Save the Drogheda Cottage Hospital could be further
damaged.

I say to our supporters, do not believe all you hear on the airwaves or read in
the newspapers, as it may not be a balanced and fair record.

In conclusion, I ask those concerned citizens to please continue your support
for the retention and expansion of public health services for our older citizens
at the Drogheda Cottage Hospital as they deserve and need our full support. The
Campaign to Save The Cottage Hospital goes on.

Is mise le meas John Healy

Carntown Ballymakenny Drogheda Co. Louth.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    December 5, 2002 Thursday Final Edition

Briefly

SOURCE: The Hamilton Spectator

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 727 words


ONTARIO

Hospital religious ties assailed

TORONTO -- Canadian abortion doctor Henry Morgentaler says public hospitals
should end any affiliation with religious interests because their biases --
including the Catholic thinking that abortion is a "serious sin" -- are
interfering with the reproductive rights of Canadian women.

"We live in a multicultural, non-sectarian society," Morgentaler, who operates
eight private abortion clinics across Canada, said during a news conference
yesterday. "It's abnormal that hospitals should remain with religious
denominations.

Some anti-abortion interests reacted to Morgentaler's no-religious-ties idea for
hospitals with anger.

"It's outrageous," Mary Ellen Douglas of the Campaign Life Coalition said from
Kingston, Ont. "If it wasn't for the Catholic Church there would be no hospitals
in Canada because this is how hospitals began.

CANADA

Bid to outlaw donations killed

OTTAWA -- A backlash among Liberal MPs has derailed Prime Minister Jean
Chretien's plans to move quickly to outlaw corporate and union donations to
political parties.

The Liberals had hoped to introduce draft legislation to reform political
fundraising before Parliament's holiday break begins next week. But the
government has put the new proposals on hold after an outpouring of objections
from its own MPs.

Several said the fierce opposition was voiced by MPs in yesterday's closed-door
Liberal caucus meeting.

"It's effectively dead," one Liberal remarked after caucus.

Police arrest 15 in drug raid

MONTREAL -- Police have arrested 15 people after busting an alleged drug ring
they say was involved in plans to import more than $2 billion in cocaine and
hashish.

The accused are linked to a gang in Montreal's west end, police said yesterday.

About 50 officers from Quebec provincial police, the RCMP and Montreal police
staged four raids early yesterday in an investigation that began in July 2001.

Media ban decision tomorrow

PORT COQUITLAM -- A provincial court judge will decide tomorrow whether the
preliminary hearing for accused serial killer Robert Pickton -- charged with
killing 15 women -- will be open to the press and public.

Defence lawyer Peter Ritchie argued that the evidence would be "exceedingly
grim," and urged that the hearing be kept closed to keep evidence from leaking
out that might prejudice a future trial for his client.

But lawyers for the Crown and both the Canadian and U.S. media oppose the idea.

WORLD

Drifting windsurfer found safe

HONOLULU -- A Vancouver woman has been found safe after disappearing while
windsurfing in Hawaii. Jrazyna Pstrong, 46, drifted out to sea Tuesday night off
Sugar Beach at Maui.

U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer Tyler Johnson said a patrol boat found her early
yesterday, dehydrated but otherwise all right.

Pstrong was found wearing a black wet suit and floating on her surfboard about
13 kilometres from Sugar Beach.

Israeli rockets kill bomb maker

JERUSALEM -- Five Israeli helicopters destroyed a building in Gaza City with a
barrage of rockets yesterday, killing a man whom Palestinians later identified
as the inventor of a powerful bomb used against Israeli tanks.

The bombmaker, Mustafa Sabah, was at his security job at a Palestinian Authority
compound when three to four rockets struck his concrete guardhouse, witnesses
said.

Yukon River salmon quota set

WASHINGTON -- Alaska will be harvesting fewer salmon from the Canadian portion
of the Yukon River, though not as few as Canada had hoped under a new management
plan signed by Canada and the United States.

The agreement takes effect immediately and caps 17 years of diplomatic efforts
by setting harvest quotas and creating management programs for stocks of chinook
and chum salmon from the upper Yukon River.

Curfew imposed in East Timor

DILI, East Timor -- Police in East Timor's capital declared a nighttime curfew
on yesterday after officers fired on student protesters, killing at least two
people and sparking a rampage of looting and arson that left the prime
minister's house burned to the ground.

The rioting, the worst since the poverty-stricken country became independent in
May, started on the second day of protests by about 500 students who gathered at
police headquarters in Dili.

-- Hamilton Spectator wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief

                    Copyright 2002 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              193 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                           September 3, 2016 Saturday

PG doctors asked to stay away from politics

BYLINE: Suleman Chaudhry

SECTION: Vol. 14 No. 245

LENGTH: 627  words


In order to curb the culture of politics in medical institutions, the Punjab
government has imposed a complete ban on political activities at teaching
hospitals and directed the newly inducted postgraduate trainee doctors not to
become part of any such event.

A PG trainee would not be allowed to be a part of any political party or member
of medical or dental wing of any political organisation during the entire period
of training. The principal/head of institution were also empowered to terminate
the contract of such PG trainees without serving any prior notice.

The government officials privy to this development claimed that the Specialised
Healthcare and Medical Education (SH and ME) Department has made strict
disciplinary rules and regulation in the regard. In other words, newly inducted
PG trainees have been warned to stay away from political activities the Young
Doctors Association (YDA) in public hospitals.

Formed some eight years ago, the Punjab YDA was represented by over 20,000 young
doctors at all government hospitals of the province. The main strength of the
association has been the postgraduate trainees and house officers. Young doctors
have been giving tough time to the provincial government over central induction
policy (CIP) for PG trainee programmes, including FCPS, MD, MDS and MS.

Sources further said that SH and ME significantly increased the PG slots in past
while currently, more than 4,500 PG training slots were available in the public
sector teaching hospital in Punjab. Now, ending the medics' monopoly, department
has devised a comprehensive transparent system generated through merit-based PG
induction policy named 'Punjab Post-Graduate Training Programme' after unanimous
consensus from all stakeholders. In order to facilitate the institutions and
aspiring doctors, the SH and ME secretary would devise regulations for its
implementation at all levels.

That SH and ME Department has written a letter to all principals of medical
colleges and medical superintendents (MS) of teaching hospitals, directing them
to keep a close eye on such movements in their institutions.

According to rules, a PG trainee doctor would not be entitled for private
practice or second job at any other hospital/institution during the training
period. The PG training is a full-time residential job and they shall perform
duty in department ward as per duty roster defined by head of department.

No official accommodation would be provided to the PG trainee during the period
of training. However, a non-furnished room on single or share-basis would be
provided to the PG trainees subject to payment of utility charges/room rent and
availability in the hospital/hostel. The provision of hostel accommodation is
purely made to ensure round the clock availability of PG doctors in hospitals/
ward.

The total duration of the course would be as per stipulated period of the
programme chosen out of which the contract for one year would be granted
(extendable on yearly bases subject to satisfactory performance). The PG would
be entitled to draw stipend as fixed by the government as admissible under the
rules and subject to availability of stipendiary seats in the respective
specialty in the respective institute where he/she is placed.

Once a PG trainee dropped or leaves the course incomplete, he/she would not be
eligible to rejoin the course until decided by the hardship committee. The
contract of PG trainee could be terminated at any time during the training
period in case of violation of contract agreement, misconduct, absence or poor
performance as per disciplinary rules.

The PG trainee shall not be allowed to change his/her course at any stage during
the study for which he/she initially recommended by the Joint Admission
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

4 dead, 64 hurt as sites takencasualties on both sides, nearly 700 injured so
far over the past 11 weeks

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 500 words


The Nation

four people were killed and 64 others injured in clashes between anti-government
protesters and police yesterday.

The casualties occurred on both sides as the authorities were trying to reclaim
public areas from the demonstrators. The Erawan Emergency Medical Service Centre
confirmed these figures at about 4.40pm yesterday.

With the latest casualties, the number of victims in the ongoing political
violence has risen to 697, of whom 15 have died so far. These statistics have
been compiled since the first clash erupted near Ramkhamhaeng University on
November 30.

Three victims identified

Of the four killed yesterday, three were identified as Pol Snr Sgt-Major
Phienchai Pharawat, 45; plus Supoj Boonrung, 52; and Thanusak Rattanakhot, 29,
who were both believed to be protesters.

Of the 64 injured, 10 were police, who were admitted for treatment at the Police
General Hospital. One of the officers had to undergo surgery to remove a bullet
from his head.

Most of the injured police officers hailed from non-commissioned ranks with many
apparently suffering from wounds caused by shrapnel.

Only one commissioned officer appeared on the list of casualties â[#x20ac]" Pol
Colonel Yongyuth Ruangdej, a superintendent at the Royal Police Cadet Academy,
who sustained a gunshot wound to his leg.

Other victims from yesterday's clashes were mostly being treated at nearby
hospitals such as the Klang Hospital, Hua Chiew Hospital, Ramathibodi Hospital,
Faculty of Medicine Vajira Hospital, and Priest Hospital.

Meanwhile, Public Health Minister Pradit Sinthawanarong said yesterday that
hospitals in neighbouring provinces were put on alert, in case extra medical
help was required to treat victims of political violence.

"If there are more than 100 victims, there is a possibility that they will be
sent to nearby provinces," he said.

Anti-government protesters have been rallying on the streets for several months
in a bid to pressure caretaker Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra to resign.
They believe her resignation will pave the way for a People's Council that will
help implement reforms for public interest.

Standing strong

The Yingluck administration, however, has refused to step down, saying it needs
to protect democracy.

It has imposed a state of emergency and went ahead with an election on February
2, but this #124was marred with problems which #124the Election Commission is
attempting to resolve, such as a lack of candidates in many constituencies in
the South.

Ballots also need to be held in many seats in Bangkok where voting could not be
conducted because of protests or blockades that prevented the delivery of ballot
papers.

With the political battle having also spread to the Internet, National Health
Commission secretary-general Amphon Jindawatana expressed concern yesterday
about victims' personal information being used in the political struggle.

He warned that disclosing a patient's personal information constituted a legal
offence.

"Please respect patients' basic rights," he urged.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 17, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Despite Ring of Truth, Criticism Often Involved Stretching Facts

Michael Weisskopf, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1069 words


Republican Robert J. Dole's assault on Clinton administration ethics in last
night's presidential debate sounded high-minded, authoritative and no-doubt
reassuring to his supporters.

It also was a stretch. The "30-some" administration officials Dole said had
"left or are being investigated or in jail" was based on a list released by his
campaign that included officials who have been cleared of charges, dragged into
still-inconclusive inquiries launched by Republicans or probed for alleged
wrongdoing that occurred before President Clinton entered office.

Clinton was no more truthful in piling criticism on the Republican plan for
overhauling Medicare, citing an American Hospital Association projection that it
"could have closed 700 hospitals." In fact, the group never predicted closings,
but said that nearly 700 "most vulnerable" hospitals are dependent on Medicare
income and that they would be severely affected by any plan to overhaul the
health insurance program for the elderly, Republican or Democrat.

For all their folksiness at the town hall forum, the president and his
challenger often demonstrated a greater commitment to triumph than the truth.
They parried with selective facts, lunged with misrepresentations, and generally
left viewers farther from objective reality.

Many of last night's statements were part of this campaign's stock of white lies
-- Clinton's repeated references to Republican "cuts" in Medicare when the
program would have grown under the GOP program (although more slowly than
current projections, or under Clinton's own proposal); Dole's portrayal of the
Clinton economy as the "worst" in a century when private sector growth has
boomed; and Clinton's boast of "putting 100,000 police on the street" when fewer
than half that number have been deployed or hired (albeit because the Republican
Congress failed to approve the money for them).

But the candidates broke new ground on issues of trade, foreign policy, tobacco
regulations, health care reform, family leave and ethics.

Dole attempted to raise questions about the administration's ethical conduct by
noting that campaign finance reform "might help contributions coming in from
Indonesia." He was referring to a $ 425,000 contribution to the Democratic
National Committee by an Indonesian couple living in a modest Virginia town
house.

Federal law bars campaign contributions from anyone who is not a U.S. citizen or
legal resident. Although Republicans have suggested the money may have been
raised illegally from overseas sources, because the woman's father is a business
partner of the head of an Indonesian company with ties to Clinton. But the woman
and her husband were legal U.S. residents, and no evidence has emerged thus far
that any law was violated.

Dole also got carried away on the scandal Republicans call "Filegate" when he
accused the administration of gathering 900 confidential FBI background reports.
"People like you," he said to the audience, adding, "Why should they be rifling
through your files?" In fact, more than 700 files improperly acquired by the
White House security office were of former Republican officials in the Bush and
Reagan administrations, not average citizens.

Clinton did not respond to either innuendo, but issued a number of questionable
statements on trade. He bragged of trade agreements with Tokyo that allowed for
U.S. sales to Japan of everything from telephones to cars to rice. Although the
rice market opened in Japan after the 1994 Uruguay Round of trade and tariff
negotiations, the other products already had been sold there for years.

He also attributed the rise in U.S. auto manufacturing production and sales to
his aggressive trade policies. But one of the main reasons that production has
increased is the location of Japanese and other foreign auto factories in this
country.

Clinton seemed to err in response to a question on possible U.S. peacekeeping on
the West Bank. "I do not believe Yasser Arafat wants us to send troops to West
Bank," he said. "We have never been asked to send troops to the West Bank." In
fact, the Palestinian leader said in Jericho on Tuesday that he was ready to
have U.S. troops guard Jewish settlers in the West Bank town of Hebron if that
would calm Israel's security fears.

On tobacco regulations, Dole launched a strong offense as the best defense
against his controversial statement that tobacco is not always addictive. He
blamed the president for delaying implementation of a law restricting tobacco
sales to minors and touted his own record for supporting health warnings on
cigarettes in 1965 and for voting "for everything since that time."

But Clinton, the first president to attempt regulation of the tobacco industry,
had been delayed in imposing the law -- which had been passed in 1992 and was
sent in 1993 to the new Clinton administration for implementation -- by the
large number public comments and complaints of cigarette companies that had to
be heard and considered. In fact, the law originally had been introduced by
Democrats and was watered down by Republicans.

Dole, on the other hand, has been friendly enough to the tobacco industry to
receive large contributions over the years to his campaigns and groups linked to
him.

Dole was critical of Clinton's 1993 plan for universal health care coverage,
calling it a "government takeover of health care" that would have prevented
people from choosing their own doctor. But the ill-fate proposal offered a
fee-for-services option, preserving the right of patients to choose their own
physician, and it was devised as an alternative to the kind of "single-payer"
government-run program typical of nationalized medicine.

Clinton, for his part, overstated the impact of the Family and Medical Leave Act
that he signed over Dole's objection. Although the president said that the law
had been used by 12 million families since 1993, a congressional study reported
in May that only 1.5 million to 3 million Americans, less than 4 percent of
those eligible, had used it in the first 18 months.

He also said that the Republican plan for Medicare would have the "poorest
seniors in the country pay $ 270 more a year," but the proposal actually would
have raised the monthly premiums by half as much per person.

Staff writer Paul Blustein and staff researcher Barbara J. Saffir contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              196 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                           September 13, 2013 Friday

Who will save Karachi's doctors?

BYLINE:  Dr Jahanzeb Effendi

LENGTH: 534  words


One morning I decided to make a surprise visit to the Civil Hospital Karachi.
The motive of my visit was to get an idea of the current security arrangements,
so that violence in hospitals could be prevented and controlled. Unfortunately,
this visit uncovered a set of serious security breaches: there was an absence of
security personnel on almost all the entrances and exits of the hospital, the
main gate leading to the entrance of the emergency department was being handled
by a few unarmed security guards, the police chowki was empty and it appeared
that no one was on duty. Moreover, there was no sign of Rangers pickets on
either of the entrances and the picket that was once parked outside the ENT
department was also missing.

This serious lack of security brought back memories of an incident that took
place a year ago when an armed mob entered the Civil Hospital on August 24,
2012, following the death of a political worker who was admitted with gunshot
wounds. The charged mob attacked the surgical unit, two doctors and the
emergency staff. Several people were threatened, female doctors harassed while
their male counterparts were brutally manhandled.

Following these events, the doctors and paramedics observed a protest and went
on a token strike till adequate security was provided. High promises were made
by the police officials and the deputy commissioner office for arresting the
perpetrators of this violence. Security was beefed up in and outside the
hospital and an assurance was made to have a constant presence of Rangers inside
the hospital. However, my visit showed an absolute lack of security - no
presence of Rangers and no policemen on duty.

Had a mob entered the hospital that day, doctors and paramedics would have been
the victims of physical and mental abuse yet again.

A similar incident occurred in Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC) in
December 2012, when two armed wings of political parties ended up firing
indiscriminately inside the emergency unit. In the CCTV footage, the medical
teams are seen running for cover. Rangers are seen responding after a few
minutes and their non-serious attitude results in the escape of the culprit from
right under their noses.

The doctors, medical staff, paramedics and general public visiting JPMC suffered
once more when a massive bomb ripped outside the emergency unit in 2010,
following a bomb blast at a bus taking people to a Chehlum procession.

Another incident took place in June this year - a suicide bombing that was
followed by a hostage situation in Bolan Medical College, Quetta.

Healthcare professionals continue to be the victims of violence in Pakistan.
Angry attendants, armed mobs and charged political party workers are part of a
daily routine for the medical staff that faces these hostile situations while
working in the emergency services.

Efficient internal and external hospital security should be provided at public
hospitals, especially for Civil Hospital Karachi, JPMC and Abbasi Shaheed
Hospital. These hospitals are relied on the most when the city undergoes any
kind of emergency.

The least we can do is ensure the safety of our doctors and paramedics so they
can do their jobs and save our lives!

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 2, 2017 Friday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
Louisiana: BRENDA ANDRUS, Plaintiff VERSUS UNUM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
AMERICA, Defendant

LENGTH: 5962  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of Louisiana has
issued the following order:
1
 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
 EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA
 BRENDA ANDRUS,
 Plaintiff
 CIVIL ACTION
 VERSUS
 NO. 16-1112
 UNUM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA,
 Defendant
 SECTION: "E" (1)


 ORDER AND REASONS
 Before the Court is Defendant Unum Life Insurance Company of America's motion
for partial summary judgment that the group long-term disability policy at issue
is subject to ERISA.1 The Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing the Opelousas
General Health System is a governmental entity exempt from ERISA.2 For the
reasons below, the motion for partial summary judgment is DENIED.
 BACKGROUND
 The Plaintiff, Brenda Andrus, worked as a case manager at Opelousas General
Hospital.3 The Defendant, Unum Life Insurance Company of America ("Unum") issued
a group long-term disability policy to employees of Opelousas General Health
System ("the Plan.")4 The Plaintiff alleges she suffers from a number of medical
conditions that prevent her from continuing to work, and that she is disabled
under the terms of the Plan.5 Unum denies the Plaintiff is eligible for
long-term disability benefits. The Plaintiff also alleges her medical condition
qualifies her for waiver of life insurance premium benefits under the Plan's
terms. The Plaintiff seeks penalties against Unum under the Louisiana
 1 R. Doc. 20.
 2 R. Doc. 21.
 3 R. Doc. 1 at 2.
 4 R. Doc. 20-2 at 2; id. at 12-51.
 5 R. Doc. 1 at 2. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 1
of 16
 2
 Insurance Code, alleging Unum's failure to pay her claims is arbitrary and
capricious.6 Plaintiff also brings a state-law claim for emotional distress.
 Unum seeks judgment as a matter of law that the Plan is an ERISA plan and that,
as a result, the Plaintiff's state-law claims are preempted, the evidence is
constrained to the administrative record, discovery is limited, and the matter
may not be submitted to a jury.
 SUMMARY JUDGMENT STANDARD
 Summary judgment is appropriate only "if the movant shows that there is no
genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law."7 "An issue is material if its resolution could affect the
outcome of the action."8 When assessing whether a material factual dispute
exists, the Court considers "all of the evidence in the record but refrains from
making credibility determinations or weighing the evidence."9 All reasonable
inferences are drawn in favor of the nonmoving party.10 There is no genuine
issue of material fact if, even viewing the evidence in the light most favorable
to the nonmoving party, no reasonable trier of fact could find for the nonmoving
party, thus entitling the moving party to judgment as a matter of law.11
 If the dispositive issue is one on which the moving party will bear the burden
of persuasion at trial, the moving party "must come forward with evidence which
would 'entitle it to a directed verdict if the evidence went uncontroverted at
trial.'"12 If the
 6 R. Doc. 1 at 3.
 7 FED. R. CIV. P. 56; see also Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322-23
(1986).
 8 DIRECTV Inc. v. Robson, 420 F.3d 532, 536 (5th Cir. 2005).
 9 Delta & Pine Land Co. v. Nationwide Agribusiness Ins. Co., 530 F.3d 395, 398
(5th Cir. 2008); see also Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Prods., Inc., 530 U.S.
133, 150-51 (2000).
 10 Little v. Liquid Air Corp., 37 F.3d 1069, 1075 (5th Cir. 1994).
 11 Smith v. Amedisys, Inc., 298 F.3d 434, 440 (5th Cir. 2002).
 12 Int'l Shortstop, Inc. v. Rally's, Inc., 939 F.2d 1257, 1263-64 (5th Cir.
1991) (quoting Golden Rule Ins. Co. v. Lease, 755 F. Supp. 948, 951 (D. Colo.
1991)). Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 2 of 16
 3
 moving party fails to carry this burden, the motion must be denied. If the
moving party successfully carries this burden, the burden of production then
shifts to the nonmoving party to direct the Court's attention to something in
the pleadings or other evidence in the record setting forth specific facts
sufficient to establish that a genuine issue of material fact does indeed
exist.13
 If the dispositive issue is one on which the nonmoving party will bear the
burden of persuasion at trial, the moving party may satisfy its burden of
production by either (1) submitting affirmative evidence that negates an
essential element of the nonmovant's claim, or (2) demonstrating there is no
evidence in the record to establish an essential element of the nonmovant's
claim.14 When proceeding under the first option, if the nonmoving party cannot
muster sufficient evidence to dispute the movant's contention that there are no
disputed facts, a trial would be useless, and the moving party is entitled to
summary judgment as a matter of law.15 When, however, the movant is proceeding
under the second option and is seeking summary judgment on the ground that the
nonmovant has no evidence to establish an essential element of the claim, the
nonmoving party may defeat a motion for summary judgment by "calling the Court's
attention to supporting evidence already in the record that was overlooked or
ignored by the moving
 13 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 322-24.
 14 Id. at 331-32 (Brennan, J., dissenting); see also St. Amant v. Benoit, 806
F.2d 1294, 1297 (5th Cir. 1987) (citing Justice Brennan's statement of the
summary judgment standard in Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322-24
(1986), and requiring the movants to submit affirmative evidence to negate an
essential element of the nonmovant's claim or, alternatively, demonstrate the
nonmovant's evidence is insufficient to establish an essential element); Fano v.
O'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (citing Justice Brennan's dissent in Celotex, and
requiring the movant to make an affirmative presentation to negate the
nonmovant's claims on summary judgment); 10A CHARLES ALAN WRIGHT, ARTHUR R.
MILLER & MARY KAY KANE, FEDERAL PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE §2727.1 (2016) ("Although
the Court issued a five-to-four decision, the majority and dissent both agreed
as to how the summary-judgment burden of proof operates; they disagreed as to
how the standard was applied to the facts of the case." (internal citations
omitted)).
 15 First National Bank of Arizona v. Cities Service Co., 391 U.S. 253, 288-89
(1980);
 Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 249-50 (1986). Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 3 of 16
 4
 party."16 Under either scenario, the burden then shifts back to the movant to
demonstrate the inadequacy of the evidence relied upon by the nonmovant.17 If
the movant meets this burden, "the burden of production shifts [back again] to
the nonmoving party, who must either (1) rehabilitate the evidence attacked in
the moving party's papers, (2) produce additional evidence showing the existence
of a genuine issue for trial as provided in Rule 56(e), or (3) submit an
affidavit explaining why further discovery is necessary as provided in Rule
56(f)."18 "Summary judgment should be granted if the nonmoving party fails to
respond in one or more of these ways, or if, after the nonmoving party responds,
the court determines that the moving party has met its ultimate burden of
persuading the court that there is no genuine issue of material fact for
trial."19
 LAW AND ANALYSIS
 The Plaintiff seeks to recover from Unum benefits allegedly due to her under
the Plan. In its motion, Unum seeks a determination that the Plan is governed by
ERISA section 502(a)(1)(B), codified at 29 U.S.C. § 1132(a)(1)(B).20 In
response, the Plaintiff argues the Plan is exempt from ERISA pursuant to 29
U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1), which expressly excludes government plans.
 It is undisputed that the Opelousas General Hospital System obtained the group
long-term disability policy for its eligible employees from Unum.21 The material
facts surrounding the creation of OGHS also are undisputed.
 16 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 332-33.
 17 Id.
 18 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 332-33, 333 n.3.
 19 Id.; see also First National Bank of Arizona, 391 U.S at 289.
 20 See McCall v. Burlington N./Santa Fe Co., 237 F.3d 506, 512 (5th Cir. 2000)
("When a beneficiary wants what was supposed to have been distributed under a
plan, the appropriate remedy is a claim for denial of benefits under §
502(a)(1)(B) of ERISA rather than a fiduciary claim brought pursuant to §
502(a)(3).").
 21 R. Doc. 20-2 Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 4 of
16
 5
 In 1953, the St. Landry Parish Police Jury, now known as the St. Landry Parish
Council,22 created the Hospital Service District No. 2, which is a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana.23 The Hospital Service District No. 2 is
statutorily authorized to enter into an agreement with a third party for the
third party to manage and operate a hospital for the benefit of the service
district.24 On September 21, 1954, the citizens of Opelousas voted to pass a
one-mill ad valorem tax for 20 years to pay for part of the hospital
construction.25 Pursuant to its statutory authority, the Hospital Service
District No. 2 entered into a lease agreement with the Hospital Corporation of
the Sisters of Marianites of the Holy Cross for it to operate the newly
constructed hospital.26 In 1971, the Hospital Service District No. 2 submitted
another bond proposal to fund the expansion of the hospital, but the proposal
was defeated by the voters.27 In response, a number of members of the Board of
Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2 created a public
trust--Opelousas General Hospital Authority d/b/a Opelousas General Hospital
System ("OGHS").28 The Hospital Service District No. 2 is the beneficiary of the
public trust. Pursuant to the Trust Indenture, the five Commissioners for the
Hospital Service District No. 2 serve as five of the nine Trustees of OGHS.29
 Because the Court finds the material facts in this matter not to be in dispute,
the Court will determine whether Unum is entitled to judgment as a matter of law
that Plaintiff's long-term disability plan is an ERISA plan.
 22 The Court will refer to the St. Landry Parish Police Jury by its current
name, the "Parish Council."
 23 R. Doc. 20-5; Bertrand v. Sandoz, 255 So. 2d 754, 755 (La. 1971).
 24 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055.
 25 Bertrand, 255 So. 2d at 756.
 26 Id.
 27 Id.
 28 Id. at 757.
 29 Bertrand, 255 So. 2d at 758. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 5 of 16
 6
 ERISA comprehensively regulates employee benefit plans.30 If a participant in
an employee benefit plan could have brought her claim under ERISA, ERISA
completely preempts her other causes of action.31 Whether a participant could
have brought her suit under ERISA turns on whether the plan is an "ERISA
plan."32 Although ERISA's scope is expansive, certain types of employee benefit
plans are excluded from coverage.
 Title 29, United States Code, Section 1003(b)(1) provides that ERISA "shall
not" apply to any employee benefit plan if such a plan is a "governmental
plan."33 ERISA defines a "governmental plan" as "[a] plan established or
maintained for its employees by the Government of the United States, by the
government of any State or political subdivision thereof, or by any agency or
instrumentality of the foregoing."34
 The Court must therefore determine whether OGHS, which established and now
maintains the Plaintiff's long-term disability plan, is (1) a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana, or (2) an agency or instrumentality of a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana. If OGHS is either a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana or an agency or instrumentality of a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana, the employee benefit plan it
established and maintains is a "governmental plan" exempt from ERISA.
 I. Political Subdivision
 The Court will first examine whether OGHS is a political subdivision of the
State of Louisiana. ERISA does not define the term "political subdivision."35
For the purpose of
 30 Aetna Health Inc. v. Davila, 542 U.S. 200, 208 (2004).
 31 Id. at 209-10.
 32 Hanson v. Continental Ins. Co., 940 F.2d 971, 976 (5th Cir. 1991).
 33 29 U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1).
 34 29 U.S.C. § 1002(32). There is no statutory language in ERISA that defines
the terms "political subdivision," "agency" or "instrumentality."
 35 Smith, 2015 WL 6442337 at *7 (E.D. La. Oct. 23, 2015) (citing Koval v. Wash.
Cnty. Redevelopment Auth., 574 F.3d 238, 240 (3d Cir. 2009)). Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 6 of 16
 7
 discerning whether an entity is a political subdivision under ERISA, the Fifth
Circuit has adopted the Hawkins test formulated by the Supreme Court in NLRB v.
Natural Gas Utility District of Hawkins County.36 Under the Hawkins test, an
entity is a political subdivision if it is either "(1) created directly by the
state, so as to constitute departments or administrative arms of the government,
or (2) administered by individuals who are responsible to public officials or to
the general electorate."37
 The Plaintiff need only establish that OGHS fits the definition of a political
subdivision under one prong or the other of the Hawkins test. The Court will
first address the second prong, whether OGHS is "administered by individuals who
are responsible to public officials or to the general electorate."38
 Unum argues OGHS is not a political subdivision because it "is not administered
by individuals who are responsible to public officials or to the general
public."39 Unum further contends the members of the Board of Trustees of OGHS
are all individual citizens serving in their private capacities.40 The
Plaintiff, on the other hand, argues there is little difference between the
administration of the Hospital Service District No. 2, which the parties agree
is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana, and OGHS.41 To determine
whether OGHS is administered by individuals who are responsible to public
officials or the general electorate, the Court will examine OGHS's governance
structure.
 36 Smith v. Reg'l Transit Auth., 827 F.3d 412, 417 (5th Cir. 2016); 402 U.S.
600 (1971).
 37 Smith, 827 F.3d at 417 (quoting Hawkins Cnty., 402 U.S. at 604-05).
 38 Hawkins Cnty., 402 U.S. at 604-05.
 39 R. Doc. 20-1 at 21.
 40 Id. at 24.
 41 R. Doc. 21 at 13. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
7 of 16
 8
 The governing body of St. Landry Parish is the St. Landry Parish Council
("Parish Council").42 The publicly elected members of the Parish Council appoint
five Commissioners to the Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2.43
These five Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2 are a majority
of the Trustees on the Board of Trustees of OGHS.44 The original Trust Indenture
states "the Trustees of this Trust shall be . . . the persons presently
constituting the members of the governing Commission of the [Hospital Service
District No. 2]."45 The Amended Trust Indenture increased the number of Trustees
of OGHS to nine, but these additional Trustees also are appointed by the
Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2.46 The only limitation on
the appointments by the Hospital Service District No. 2 is the additional four
Trustees must be residents of St. Landry Parish.47 The Trust Indenture provides
that officers of the Commission and OGHS are identical.48
 42 See ST. LANDRY PARISH, Home Rule Charter, available at
http://stlandryparish.org/government/home-rule-charter.
 43 R. Doc. 20-5 at 1. The members of the Commission of the Hospital Service
District No. 2 are appointed by the St. Landry Parish Council. LA. REV. STAT.
ANN. § 46:1053(A) ("Any hospital service district formed or created under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be governed by a board of five commissioners,
hereafter referred to as commission, who shall be qualified voters and residents
of the district. The commission shall be appointed by the police jury of the
parish."). It is undisputed that both the St. Landry Parish Council and the
Hospital Service District No. 2 are political subdivisions of the State of
Louisiana. R. Doc. 20-11 at 3, &para;&para; 12-13; R. Doc. 21-1 at 4,
&para;&para; 12-13; LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055.
 44 R. Doc. 21-3 at 1, &para; 6. The Trust Indenture provides "[t]he Trustees of
this Trust shall be the same persons who are the Chairman and members of the
governing body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, and shall
remain as Trustees until such person or persons shall have been succeeded and
replaced by some other person or persons as Chairman and members of the
governing body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, and such
latter person or persons shall without any further act or deed automatically
become Trustees of this Trust." R. Doc. 21-2 at 4. Each of the Trustees of OGHS
is required to "take the oath of office required of public officials." LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 9:2343(A)(1).
 45 R. Doc. 21-2 at 3-4.
 46 R. Doc. 21-5.
 47 R. Doc. 21-5 at 2 ("The Trustees who shall constitute the Board of Trustees
of the Trust shall be appointed by the governing body of the Beneficiary . . .
."); id. at 3 ("The governing body of the Beneficiary shall appoint four (4)
additional Trustees.").
 48 R. Doc. 21-2 at 4-5 ("The person who shall be the Chairman of the governing
body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, shall become
automatically the Chairman of the Trustees and shall preside at all meetings and
perform other duties designated by the Trustees. The person who shall be the
Vice Chairman of the Hospital Service District No. 2 shall be automatically the
Vice Chairman of the Trustees . . . . The person who shall be the Secretary of
the Hospital Service District No. 2 shall act as Secretary of the Trustees.").
Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 8 of 16
 9
 The Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2, as the governing
authority of the beneficiary of the Trust, has the power remove a Trustee of
OGHS for cause.49 The Board of Trustees of OGHS is required to adopt bylaws, but
the bylaws must be submitted to the "governing authority of the beneficiary"--in
this case, the Commission of Hospital Service District No. 2.50 The Commission
has the power to veto OGHS's bylaws or any proposed changes to its bylaws.51 The
Trust Indenture was required to be approved by the Commission of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 and by the Louisiana State Bond Commission.52 Amendments
to the Trust Indenture also must be approved by the Commission of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 and by the Louisiana State Bond Commission.53 In sum,
neither OGHS's bylaws nor its Trust Indenture may be changed without the consent
of the Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2, which is appointed by
the Parish Council.
 The Court finds that OGHS is administered by individuals who are responsible to
public officials, namely the Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No.
2, which
 49 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2343(F)(3) ("In the case of persons appointed by the
governing authority of the beneficiary or by the governor, as the case may be,
such persons shall be appointed for a term not in excess of six years, and shall
be subject to removal for cause, as aforesaid, by or at the will of the
beneficiary.").
 50 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(C).
 51 Id. "[T]he governing authority of the beneficiary shall have the power to
veto all or part of the proposed bylaws." The Court notes that all meetings of
the Board of Trustees of OGHS are open to the public, and the minutes of each
meeting are public record to the same extent required by law for the
beneficiary--Hospital Service District No. 2. LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 19:2342(D)
("Meetings of the trustees of all public trusts shall be open to the public and
the records of all public trusts shall be public records to the same extent as
is required by law for the beneficiary."). Books, records, and minutes of each
OGHS Board of Trustees meeting are considered public records and are available
for inspection by the legislative auditor or any accountant or official
representative of the St. Landry Parish Council. R. Doc. 21-2 at 5.
 52 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(A) (A public trust may be created with the "(1)
express approval of the governor and two-thirds of the elected members of each
house of the legislature if the state of Louisiana or any state agency is the
beneficiary; (2) express approval of a majority of the membership of the
governing authority of the beneficiary and the State Bond Commission or its
successor if a parish or municipality or a political or governmental subdivision
thereof is the beneficiary; and (3) express approval of a majority of the
membership of the governing authority of the beneficiary and the State Bond
Commission or its successor, in all other cases." (emphasis added)).
 53 See R. Doc. 21-6 at 5, Section 3. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35
Filed 05/31/17 Page 9 of 16
 10
 is a political subdivision. The Commissioners of the Hospital Service District
No. 2 are responsible to the Parish Council, which also is a political
subdivision. OGHS is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana for the
purposes of ERISA because it is "administered by individuals who are responsible
to public officials or the general electorate."54
 Because the Court finds OGHS is a political subdivision of the State of
Louisiana, the employee benefit plan established and maintained by OGHS is a
"governmental plan," which is exempt from ERISA coverage pursuant to 29 U.S.C. §
1003(b)(1).55
 II. Agency or Instrumentality
 Alternatively, if OGHS is not itself a political subdivision of the State of
Louisiana, the Plaintiff's plan may nevertheless be a governmental plan exempt
from ERISA if OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service
District No. 2, a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana. ERISA does
not define "agency or instrumentality"
 54 Hawkins, 4002 U.S. at 604-05. Both OGHS and the State of Louisiana treat
OGHS as a governmental entity. First, OGHS completed a Client Information Form
in connection with its application for a long-term disability plan with Unum,
which indicated OGHS is exempt from ERISA. R. Doc. 20-2 at 6. The Court--not the
benefit plan--determines whether ERISA applies. Stern v. IBM Corp., 326 F.3d
1367 (11th Cir. 2003) (an employer's labeling of a plan does not determine
whether it is an ERISA plan). Although OGHS's labeling is not dispositive of
whether the Plaintiff's plan is an ERISA plan, the Court finds it telling that
OGHS considers itself exempt from ERISA and has not submitted the Form 5500
annual report with the Secretary of Labor, as required by ERISA for all ERISA
plans. R. Doc. 21-3. Second, the 2015 legislative audit of OGHS states "The
Opelousas General Hospital Authority (the "Hospital") was created under the laws
of the State of Louisiana pursuant to a Trust Indenture executed . . . for the
benefit of the [Hospital Service] District [No. 2] and is a public
instrumentality of the State of Louisiana." LOUISIANA LEGISLATIVE AUDITOR,
Hospital Service District No. 2 of St. Landry Parish, Louisiana and Opelousas
General Hospital Authority, Financial Report (Jun. 30, 2015), available at
https://
app.lla.state.la.us/PublicReports.nsf/05802C0CCCEC002E862580E2006C4718/$FILE/000
12B98.pdf. Third, OGHS--as a public trust--is exempt from state and federal
taxes, and the property of the Trust is considered public property. LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 9:2347(M) ("The property of any public trust . . . is hereby
declared to be public property used for essential public and governmental
purposes. . . . [S]uch public trust, and all of its properties at any time owned
by it and the income therefrom and all bonds issued by it and the income
therefrom, shall be exempt from all taxes of the parish or municipality, the
state, or any political subdivision thereof or any other taxing body.").
Finally, all meetings of the Board of Trustees of OGHS are open to the public,
and the minutes of each meeting are public record to the same extent required by
law for the beneficiary--Hospital Service District No. 2. LA. REV. STAT. ANN. §
19:2342(D) ("Meetings of the trustees of all public trusts shall be open to the
public and the records of all public trusts shall be public records to the same
extent as is required by law for the beneficiary.").
 55 Because OGHS need only meet one prong of the Hawkins test for the Court to
make a finding that OGHS is a political subdivision for the purposes of ERISA,
the Court will not consider whether OGHS was created directly by the state, so
as to constitute a department or administrative arm of the government. Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 10 of 16
 11
 for the purposes of determining whether a plan is exempt as a governmental
plan.56 The Fifth Circuit has adopted the six-factor test provided in Internal
Revenue Service Revenue Ruling 57-128, as refined by Internal Revenue Service
Revenue Ruling 89-49, as the appropriate test for determining whether an entity
is an agency or instrumentality of a governmental entity.57 In Revenue Ruling
57-128, the IRS set forth the following six factors to be considered in
determining whether a particular entity is an agency or instrumentality of a
state or political subdivision:
 (1) whether it is used for a governmental purpose and performs a governmental
function; (2) whether performance of its function is on behalf of one or more
states or political subdivisions; (3) whether there are any private interests
involved, or whether the states or political subdivisions involved have the
powers and interests of an owner; (4) whether control and supervision of the
organization is vested in public authority or authorities; (5) if express or
implied statutory or other authority is necessary for the creation and/or use of
such an instrumentality, and whether such authority exists; and (6) the degree
of financial autonomy and the source of its operating expenses.58
 Revenue Ruling 89-49 refined Revenue Rule 57-128, stating:
 One of the most important factors to be considered in determining whether an
organization is an agency or instrumentality of the United States or any state
or political subdivision is the degree of control that the federal or state
government has over the organization's everyday operations. Other factors
include: (1) whether there is specific legislation creating the organization;
(2) the source of funds for the organization; (3) the manner in which the
organization's trustees or operating board are selected; and (4) whether the
applicable governmental unit considers the employees of the organization to be
employees of the applicable governmental unit. Although all of the above factors
are considered in determining whether an organization is an agency of a
government, the mere satisfaction of one or all of the factors is not
necessarily determinative.59
 56 Smith, 827 F.3d at 417-18.
 57 Id. at 420.
 58 Rev. Rul. 57-128, 1957-1 C.B. 311.
 59 Rev. Rul. 89-49, 1989-1 C.B. 117. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35
Filed 05/31/17 Page 11 of 16
 12
 The Court must consider the factors provided in these Revenue Rulings to
determine whether OGHS is either an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital
Service District No. 2.
 First, OGHS was created "for the public purposes hereinafter set forth as a
public instrumentality of the state or a subdivision or agency thereof, under
the provisions of Act. No. 135, 1970, [Louisiana Revised Statutes] 9:2341, et
seq."60 Louisiana's public trust statute states that a public trust may be
created "to issue obligations and to provide funds for the furtherance and
accomplishment of any authorized public functions"61 such as "hospital, medical,
health, nursery care, nursing care, clinical, ambulance, laboratory and related
services and entities."62 The Court finds Unum's argument that providing
hospital services is not a "traditional government function" unpersuasive.63
Louisiana's public trust statute expressly provides that a public trust may be
created for the "public function" of administering hospital and medical
services. Accordingly, the Court finds this factor weighs in favor of finding
OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 Second, OGHS performs its functions on behalf of the Hospital Service District
No. 2, a political subdivision of Louisiana. Pursuant to the Trust Indenture,
the Hospital Service District No. 2 is the beneficiary of the public trust, and
is the owner of the hospital. OGHS provides the day-to-day operations of the
hospital, but the hospital exists "for the use and benefit" of the Hospital
Service District No. 2.64 This factor weighs in favor of
 60 R. Doc. 21-2 at 1.
 61 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(A).
 62 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(B)(1)(a).
 63 R. Doc. 20-1.
 64 R. Doc. 21-2 at 1. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
12 of 16
 13
 finding OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District
No. 2, a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 Third, although there are private interests involved, as the members of the
Board of Trustees serve in their capacities as citizens of St. Landry Parish,
the Hospital Service District No. 2 has the powers and interests of an owner.
Although OGHS runs the day-to-day operations of the hospital, the Hospital
Service District No. 2 is the owner. The January 25, 1972 Resolution of Hospital
Service District No. 2 transferred the management and supervision of the
Opelousas General Hospital to "the Opelousas General Hospital Authority, a
Public Trust, . . . pursuant to the terms and conditions of a Management
Contract executed by and between the Hospital Service District No. 2 of St.
Landry Parish, Louisiana, as Owner and the Opelousas General Hospital Authority,
a Public Trust, as Manager."65 Further, as discussed above, the Hospital Service
District No. 2 has the power to appoint and remove members of the OGHS Board of
Trustees, a majority of whom are Commissioners of the Hospital Service District
No. 2. This factor weighs in favor of finding OGHS is an agency or
instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a political subdivision
of the State of Louisiana.
 Consideration of the fourth factor--whether control and supervision of the
organization is vested in public authority--is highly contested by the parties,
as there are facts that support both arguments. On the one hand, neither the St.
Landry Parish Council nor the Hospital Service District No. 2 controls the
finances or day-to-day operations of the hospital. OGHS generates its own
funding, hires its own employees, and provides its
 65 R. Doc. 21-7 at 1 (emphasis added). Further, the statutory purpose of the
Hospital Service District No. 2 is "to own and operate hospitals." LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 46:1052. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
13 of 16
 14
 own benefits.66 The Trust Indenture provides the Hospital Service District No.
2 has no "authority, power or right, whatsoever, to do or transact any business
for, or on behalf of, or binding upon the Trustees or upon the Trust Estate."67
On the other hand, as discussed above, the Board of Trustees, which conducts the
affairs of the OGHS, is appointed by the Hospital Service District No. 2. Five
of the nine Trustees are Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2,
who are appointed by the St. Landry Parish Council. In reality, control of OGHS
is vested the Hospital Service District No. 2 as the Commission controls the
governing board of OGHS. This factor weighs in favor of finding OGHS is an
agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 The fifth factor directs the Court to consider whether express or implied
statutory authority is necessary "for the creation and/or use of . . . an
instrumentality."68 The statute governing the Hospital Service District No. 2
authorizes it "to enter into lease agreements with recognized and duly
constituted nonprofit associations which are primarily engaged in the operation
of hospitals,"69 such as OGHS. Although no special act of the legislature
brought OGHS into existence, the use of OGHS to manage, operate, and administer
a hospital is legislatively authorized.70 This factor weighs in favor of finding
OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 66 The parties agree that employees of OGHS are not employees of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 or the Parish Council.
 67 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 68 Rev. Rul. 57-128, 1957-1 C.B. 311.
 69 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055(A)(9).
 70 Id. at § 1055(B) ("[T]he commission may enter into a special services
agreement with any person, including but not limited to a hospital management
firm or hospitals, to manage, operate, and administer a hospital or hospitals,
or any part thereof, under the control of the commission for the benefit of the
hospital service district."). Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 14 of 16
 15
 The sixth factor--degree of financial autonomy--weighs against OGHS being an
agency or instrumentality of a political subdivision. Under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, all debts of OGHS are payable solely from the Trust Estate.71
The Trust Indenture provides the Hospital Service District No. 2, as
beneficiary, "shall have no liability for any bonds, notes, or indebtedness of
any type whatsoever of the Trust" and will have no "liability for costs incurred
in the operation of the Trust, or for any actions or omission of the Trustees or
others representing the Trust."72 Further, the Hospital Service District No. 2
has "no legal title, claim or right to the Trust Estate, its income, or to any
part thereof, or to demand or require any partition or distribution thereof."73
The Court finds OGHS to be financially autonomous with respect to the Hospital
Service District No. 2, and this factor weighs against finding OGHS is an agency
or instrumentality of a political subdivision.
 Examining the factors to be considered in determining whether an entity is an
agent or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision, the Court
concludes that OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service
District No. 2, which is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.74
Therefore, the Court finds the Plaintiff's plan is a governmental plan exempt
from ERISA's coverage pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1).75
 Accordingly;
 71 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 72 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 73 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 74 The Court recognizes that Revenue Ruling 89-49 refined Revenue Ruling 57-128
by stating the "control" factor is the most important. The Court has given due
weight to this factor in its analysis.
 75 Although the Court lacks federal question subject matter jurisdiction
because of the finding that ERISA does not apply, the Court maintains subject
matter jurisdiction over this matter because the parties are diverse.
Accordingly, this matter will remain on the Court's docket, the Court will apply
Louisiana law, and the Plaintiff is entitled to a jury trial. Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 15 of 16
 16
 CONCLUSION
 IT IS ORDERED that the motion for partial summary judgment filed by Unum Life
Insurance Company of America is DENIED.
 New Orleans, Louisiana, this 31st day of May, 2017.
 _____________________________
 SUSIE MORGAN
 UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 16 of 16
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 2, 2017 Friday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
Louisiana: BRENDA ANDRUS, Plaintiff VERSUS UNUM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
AMERICA, Defendant

LENGTH: 5962  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of Louisiana has
issued the following order:
1
 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
 EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA
 BRENDA ANDRUS,
 Plaintiff
 CIVIL ACTION
 VERSUS
 NO. 16-1112
 UNUM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA,
 Defendant
 SECTION: "E" (1)


 ORDER AND REASONS
 Before the Court is Defendant Unum Life Insurance Company of America's motion
for partial summary judgment that the group long-term disability policy at issue
is subject to ERISA.1 The Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing the Opelousas
General Health System is a governmental entity exempt from ERISA.2 For the
reasons below, the motion for partial summary judgment is DENIED.
 BACKGROUND
 The Plaintiff, Brenda Andrus, worked as a case manager at Opelousas General
Hospital.3 The Defendant, Unum Life Insurance Company of America ("Unum") issued
a group long-term disability policy to employees of Opelousas General Health
System ("the Plan.")4 The Plaintiff alleges she suffers from a number of medical
conditions that prevent her from continuing to work, and that she is disabled
under the terms of the Plan.5 Unum denies the Plaintiff is eligible for
long-term disability benefits. The Plaintiff also alleges her medical condition
qualifies her for waiver of life insurance premium benefits under the Plan's
terms. The Plaintiff seeks penalties against Unum under the Louisiana
 1 R. Doc. 20.
 2 R. Doc. 21.
 3 R. Doc. 1 at 2.
 4 R. Doc. 20-2 at 2; id. at 12-51.
 5 R. Doc. 1 at 2. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 1
of 16
 2
 Insurance Code, alleging Unum's failure to pay her claims is arbitrary and
capricious.6 Plaintiff also brings a state-law claim for emotional distress.
 Unum seeks judgment as a matter of law that the Plan is an ERISA plan and that,
as a result, the Plaintiff's state-law claims are preempted, the evidence is
constrained to the administrative record, discovery is limited, and the matter
may not be submitted to a jury.
 SUMMARY JUDGMENT STANDARD
 Summary judgment is appropriate only "if the movant shows that there is no
genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law."7 "An issue is material if its resolution could affect the
outcome of the action."8 When assessing whether a material factual dispute
exists, the Court considers "all of the evidence in the record but refrains from
making credibility determinations or weighing the evidence."9 All reasonable
inferences are drawn in favor of the nonmoving party.10 There is no genuine
issue of material fact if, even viewing the evidence in the light most favorable
to the nonmoving party, no reasonable trier of fact could find for the nonmoving
party, thus entitling the moving party to judgment as a matter of law.11
 If the dispositive issue is one on which the moving party will bear the burden
of persuasion at trial, the moving party "must come forward with evidence which
would 'entitle it to a directed verdict if the evidence went uncontroverted at
trial.'"12 If the
 6 R. Doc. 1 at 3.
 7 FED. R. CIV. P. 56; see also Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322-23
(1986).
 8 DIRECTV Inc. v. Robson, 420 F.3d 532, 536 (5th Cir. 2005).
 9 Delta & Pine Land Co. v. Nationwide Agribusiness Ins. Co., 530 F.3d 395, 398
(5th Cir. 2008); see also Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Prods., Inc., 530 U.S.
133, 150-51 (2000).
 10 Little v. Liquid Air Corp., 37 F.3d 1069, 1075 (5th Cir. 1994).
 11 Smith v. Amedisys, Inc., 298 F.3d 434, 440 (5th Cir. 2002).
 12 Int'l Shortstop, Inc. v. Rally's, Inc., 939 F.2d 1257, 1263-64 (5th Cir.
1991) (quoting Golden Rule Ins. Co. v. Lease, 755 F. Supp. 948, 951 (D. Colo.
1991)). Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 2 of 16
 3
 moving party fails to carry this burden, the motion must be denied. If the
moving party successfully carries this burden, the burden of production then
shifts to the nonmoving party to direct the Court's attention to something in
the pleadings or other evidence in the record setting forth specific facts
sufficient to establish that a genuine issue of material fact does indeed
exist.13
 If the dispositive issue is one on which the nonmoving party will bear the
burden of persuasion at trial, the moving party may satisfy its burden of
production by either (1) submitting affirmative evidence that negates an
essential element of the nonmovant's claim, or (2) demonstrating there is no
evidence in the record to establish an essential element of the nonmovant's
claim.14 When proceeding under the first option, if the nonmoving party cannot
muster sufficient evidence to dispute the movant's contention that there are no
disputed facts, a trial would be useless, and the moving party is entitled to
summary judgment as a matter of law.15 When, however, the movant is proceeding
under the second option and is seeking summary judgment on the ground that the
nonmovant has no evidence to establish an essential element of the claim, the
nonmoving party may defeat a motion for summary judgment by "calling the Court's
attention to supporting evidence already in the record that was overlooked or
ignored by the moving
 13 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 322-24.
 14 Id. at 331-32 (Brennan, J., dissenting); see also St. Amant v. Benoit, 806
F.2d 1294, 1297 (5th Cir. 1987) (citing Justice Brennan's statement of the
summary judgment standard in Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322-24
(1986), and requiring the movants to submit affirmative evidence to negate an
essential element of the nonmovant's claim or, alternatively, demonstrate the
nonmovant's evidence is insufficient to establish an essential element); Fano v.
O'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (citing Justice Brennan's dissent in Celotex, and
requiring the movant to make an affirmative presentation to negate the
nonmovant's claims on summary judgment); 10A CHARLES ALAN WRIGHT, ARTHUR R.
MILLER & MARY KAY KANE, FEDERAL PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE §2727.1 (2016) ("Although
the Court issued a five-to-four decision, the majority and dissent both agreed
as to how the summary-judgment burden of proof operates; they disagreed as to
how the standard was applied to the facts of the case." (internal citations
omitted)).
 15 First National Bank of Arizona v. Cities Service Co., 391 U.S. 253, 288-89
(1980);
 Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 249-50 (1986). Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 3 of 16
 4
 party."16 Under either scenario, the burden then shifts back to the movant to
demonstrate the inadequacy of the evidence relied upon by the nonmovant.17 If
the movant meets this burden, "the burden of production shifts [back again] to
the nonmoving party, who must either (1) rehabilitate the evidence attacked in
the moving party's papers, (2) produce additional evidence showing the existence
of a genuine issue for trial as provided in Rule 56(e), or (3) submit an
affidavit explaining why further discovery is necessary as provided in Rule
56(f)."18 "Summary judgment should be granted if the nonmoving party fails to
respond in one or more of these ways, or if, after the nonmoving party responds,
the court determines that the moving party has met its ultimate burden of
persuading the court that there is no genuine issue of material fact for
trial."19
 LAW AND ANALYSIS
 The Plaintiff seeks to recover from Unum benefits allegedly due to her under
the Plan. In its motion, Unum seeks a determination that the Plan is governed by
ERISA section 502(a)(1)(B), codified at 29 U.S.C. § 1132(a)(1)(B).20 In
response, the Plaintiff argues the Plan is exempt from ERISA pursuant to 29
U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1), which expressly excludes government plans.
 It is undisputed that the Opelousas General Hospital System obtained the group
long-term disability policy for its eligible employees from Unum.21 The material
facts surrounding the creation of OGHS also are undisputed.
 16 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 332-33.
 17 Id.
 18 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 332-33, 333 n.3.
 19 Id.; see also First National Bank of Arizona, 391 U.S at 289.
 20 See McCall v. Burlington N./Santa Fe Co., 237 F.3d 506, 512 (5th Cir. 2000)
("When a beneficiary wants what was supposed to have been distributed under a
plan, the appropriate remedy is a claim for denial of benefits under §
502(a)(1)(B) of ERISA rather than a fiduciary claim brought pursuant to §
502(a)(3).").
 21 R. Doc. 20-2 Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 4 of
16
 5
 In 1953, the St. Landry Parish Police Jury, now known as the St. Landry Parish
Council,22 created the Hospital Service District No. 2, which is a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana.23 The Hospital Service District No. 2 is
statutorily authorized to enter into an agreement with a third party for the
third party to manage and operate a hospital for the benefit of the service
district.24 On September 21, 1954, the citizens of Opelousas voted to pass a
one-mill ad valorem tax for 20 years to pay for part of the hospital
construction.25 Pursuant to its statutory authority, the Hospital Service
District No. 2 entered into a lease agreement with the Hospital Corporation of
the Sisters of Marianites of the Holy Cross for it to operate the newly
constructed hospital.26 In 1971, the Hospital Service District No. 2 submitted
another bond proposal to fund the expansion of the hospital, but the proposal
was defeated by the voters.27 In response, a number of members of the Board of
Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2 created a public
trust--Opelousas General Hospital Authority d/b/a Opelousas General Hospital
System ("OGHS").28 The Hospital Service District No. 2 is the beneficiary of the
public trust. Pursuant to the Trust Indenture, the five Commissioners for the
Hospital Service District No. 2 serve as five of the nine Trustees of OGHS.29
 Because the Court finds the material facts in this matter not to be in dispute,
the Court will determine whether Unum is entitled to judgment as a matter of law
that Plaintiff's long-term disability plan is an ERISA plan.
 22 The Court will refer to the St. Landry Parish Police Jury by its current
name, the "Parish Council."
 23 R. Doc. 20-5; Bertrand v. Sandoz, 255 So. 2d 754, 755 (La. 1971).
 24 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055.
 25 Bertrand, 255 So. 2d at 756.
 26 Id.
 27 Id.
 28 Id. at 757.
 29 Bertrand, 255 So. 2d at 758. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 5 of 16
 6
 ERISA comprehensively regulates employee benefit plans.30 If a participant in
an employee benefit plan could have brought her claim under ERISA, ERISA
completely preempts her other causes of action.31 Whether a participant could
have brought her suit under ERISA turns on whether the plan is an "ERISA
plan."32 Although ERISA's scope is expansive, certain types of employee benefit
plans are excluded from coverage.
 Title 29, United States Code, Section 1003(b)(1) provides that ERISA "shall
not" apply to any employee benefit plan if such a plan is a "governmental
plan."33 ERISA defines a "governmental plan" as "[a] plan established or
maintained for its employees by the Government of the United States, by the
government of any State or political subdivision thereof, or by any agency or
instrumentality of the foregoing."34
 The Court must therefore determine whether OGHS, which established and now
maintains the Plaintiff's long-term disability plan, is (1) a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana, or (2) an agency or instrumentality of a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana. If OGHS is either a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana or an agency or instrumentality of a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana, the employee benefit plan it
established and maintains is a "governmental plan" exempt from ERISA.
 I. Political Subdivision
 The Court will first examine whether OGHS is a political subdivision of the
State of Louisiana. ERISA does not define the term "political subdivision."35
For the purpose of
 30 Aetna Health Inc. v. Davila, 542 U.S. 200, 208 (2004).
 31 Id. at 209-10.
 32 Hanson v. Continental Ins. Co., 940 F.2d 971, 976 (5th Cir. 1991).
 33 29 U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1).
 34 29 U.S.C. § 1002(32). There is no statutory language in ERISA that defines
the terms "political subdivision," "agency" or "instrumentality."
 35 Smith, 2015 WL 6442337 at *7 (E.D. La. Oct. 23, 2015) (citing Koval v. Wash.
Cnty. Redevelopment Auth., 574 F.3d 238, 240 (3d Cir. 2009)). Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 6 of 16
 7
 discerning whether an entity is a political subdivision under ERISA, the Fifth
Circuit has adopted the Hawkins test formulated by the Supreme Court in NLRB v.
Natural Gas Utility District of Hawkins County.36 Under the Hawkins test, an
entity is a political subdivision if it is either "(1) created directly by the
state, so as to constitute departments or administrative arms of the government,
or (2) administered by individuals who are responsible to public officials or to
the general electorate."37
 The Plaintiff need only establish that OGHS fits the definition of a political
subdivision under one prong or the other of the Hawkins test. The Court will
first address the second prong, whether OGHS is "administered by individuals who
are responsible to public officials or to the general electorate."38
 Unum argues OGHS is not a political subdivision because it "is not administered
by individuals who are responsible to public officials or to the general
public."39 Unum further contends the members of the Board of Trustees of OGHS
are all individual citizens serving in their private capacities.40 The
Plaintiff, on the other hand, argues there is little difference between the
administration of the Hospital Service District No. 2, which the parties agree
is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana, and OGHS.41 To determine
whether OGHS is administered by individuals who are responsible to public
officials or the general electorate, the Court will examine OGHS's governance
structure.
 36 Smith v. Reg'l Transit Auth., 827 F.3d 412, 417 (5th Cir. 2016); 402 U.S.
600 (1971).
 37 Smith, 827 F.3d at 417 (quoting Hawkins Cnty., 402 U.S. at 604-05).
 38 Hawkins Cnty., 402 U.S. at 604-05.
 39 R. Doc. 20-1 at 21.
 40 Id. at 24.
 41 R. Doc. 21 at 13. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
7 of 16
 8
 The governing body of St. Landry Parish is the St. Landry Parish Council
("Parish Council").42 The publicly elected members of the Parish Council appoint
five Commissioners to the Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2.43
These five Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2 are a majority
of the Trustees on the Board of Trustees of OGHS.44 The original Trust Indenture
states "the Trustees of this Trust shall be . . . the persons presently
constituting the members of the governing Commission of the [Hospital Service
District No. 2]."45 The Amended Trust Indenture increased the number of Trustees
of OGHS to nine, but these additional Trustees also are appointed by the
Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2.46 The only limitation on
the appointments by the Hospital Service District No. 2 is the additional four
Trustees must be residents of St. Landry Parish.47 The Trust Indenture provides
that officers of the Commission and OGHS are identical.48
 42 See ST. LANDRY PARISH, Home Rule Charter, available at
http://stlandryparish.org/government/home-rule-charter.
 43 R. Doc. 20-5 at 1. The members of the Commission of the Hospital Service
District No. 2 are appointed by the St. Landry Parish Council. LA. REV. STAT.
ANN. § 46:1053(A) ("Any hospital service district formed or created under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be governed by a board of five commissioners,
hereafter referred to as commission, who shall be qualified voters and residents
of the district. The commission shall be appointed by the police jury of the
parish."). It is undisputed that both the St. Landry Parish Council and the
Hospital Service District No. 2 are political subdivisions of the State of
Louisiana. R. Doc. 20-11 at 3, &para;&para; 12-13; R. Doc. 21-1 at 4,
&para;&para; 12-13; LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055.
 44 R. Doc. 21-3 at 1, &para; 6. The Trust Indenture provides "[t]he Trustees of
this Trust shall be the same persons who are the Chairman and members of the
governing body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, and shall
remain as Trustees until such person or persons shall have been succeeded and
replaced by some other person or persons as Chairman and members of the
governing body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, and such
latter person or persons shall without any further act or deed automatically
become Trustees of this Trust." R. Doc. 21-2 at 4. Each of the Trustees of OGHS
is required to "take the oath of office required of public officials." LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 9:2343(A)(1).
 45 R. Doc. 21-2 at 3-4.
 46 R. Doc. 21-5.
 47 R. Doc. 21-5 at 2 ("The Trustees who shall constitute the Board of Trustees
of the Trust shall be appointed by the governing body of the Beneficiary . . .
."); id. at 3 ("The governing body of the Beneficiary shall appoint four (4)
additional Trustees.").
 48 R. Doc. 21-2 at 4-5 ("The person who shall be the Chairman of the governing
body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, shall become
automatically the Chairman of the Trustees and shall preside at all meetings and
perform other duties designated by the Trustees. The person who shall be the
Vice Chairman of the Hospital Service District No. 2 shall be automatically the
Vice Chairman of the Trustees . . . . The person who shall be the Secretary of
the Hospital Service District No. 2 shall act as Secretary of the Trustees.").
Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 8 of 16
 9
 The Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2, as the governing
authority of the beneficiary of the Trust, has the power remove a Trustee of
OGHS for cause.49 The Board of Trustees of OGHS is required to adopt bylaws, but
the bylaws must be submitted to the "governing authority of the beneficiary"--in
this case, the Commission of Hospital Service District No. 2.50 The Commission
has the power to veto OGHS's bylaws or any proposed changes to its bylaws.51 The
Trust Indenture was required to be approved by the Commission of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 and by the Louisiana State Bond Commission.52 Amendments
to the Trust Indenture also must be approved by the Commission of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 and by the Louisiana State Bond Commission.53 In sum,
neither OGHS's bylaws nor its Trust Indenture may be changed without the consent
of the Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2, which is appointed by
the Parish Council.
 The Court finds that OGHS is administered by individuals who are responsible to
public officials, namely the Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No.
2, which
 49 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2343(F)(3) ("In the case of persons appointed by the
governing authority of the beneficiary or by the governor, as the case may be,
such persons shall be appointed for a term not in excess of six years, and shall
be subject to removal for cause, as aforesaid, by or at the will of the
beneficiary.").
 50 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(C).
 51 Id. "[T]he governing authority of the beneficiary shall have the power to
veto all or part of the proposed bylaws." The Court notes that all meetings of
the Board of Trustees of OGHS are open to the public, and the minutes of each
meeting are public record to the same extent required by law for the
beneficiary--Hospital Service District No. 2. LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 19:2342(D)
("Meetings of the trustees of all public trusts shall be open to the public and
the records of all public trusts shall be public records to the same extent as
is required by law for the beneficiary."). Books, records, and minutes of each
OGHS Board of Trustees meeting are considered public records and are available
for inspection by the legislative auditor or any accountant or official
representative of the St. Landry Parish Council. R. Doc. 21-2 at 5.
 52 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(A) (A public trust may be created with the "(1)
express approval of the governor and two-thirds of the elected members of each
house of the legislature if the state of Louisiana or any state agency is the
beneficiary; (2) express approval of a majority of the membership of the
governing authority of the beneficiary and the State Bond Commission or its
successor if a parish or municipality or a political or governmental subdivision
thereof is the beneficiary; and (3) express approval of a majority of the
membership of the governing authority of the beneficiary and the State Bond
Commission or its successor, in all other cases." (emphasis added)).
 53 See R. Doc. 21-6 at 5, Section 3. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35
Filed 05/31/17 Page 9 of 16
 10
 is a political subdivision. The Commissioners of the Hospital Service District
No. 2 are responsible to the Parish Council, which also is a political
subdivision. OGHS is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana for the
purposes of ERISA because it is "administered by individuals who are responsible
to public officials or the general electorate."54
 Because the Court finds OGHS is a political subdivision of the State of
Louisiana, the employee benefit plan established and maintained by OGHS is a
"governmental plan," which is exempt from ERISA coverage pursuant to 29 U.S.C. §
1003(b)(1).55
 II. Agency or Instrumentality
 Alternatively, if OGHS is not itself a political subdivision of the State of
Louisiana, the Plaintiff's plan may nevertheless be a governmental plan exempt
from ERISA if OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service
District No. 2, a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana. ERISA does
not define "agency or instrumentality"
 54 Hawkins, 4002 U.S. at 604-05. Both OGHS and the State of Louisiana treat
OGHS as a governmental entity. First, OGHS completed a Client Information Form
in connection with its application for a long-term disability plan with Unum,
which indicated OGHS is exempt from ERISA. R. Doc. 20-2 at 6. The Court--not the
benefit plan--determines whether ERISA applies. Stern v. IBM Corp., 326 F.3d
1367 (11th Cir. 2003) (an employer's labeling of a plan does not determine
whether it is an ERISA plan). Although OGHS's labeling is not dispositive of
whether the Plaintiff's plan is an ERISA plan, the Court finds it telling that
OGHS considers itself exempt from ERISA and has not submitted the Form 5500
annual report with the Secretary of Labor, as required by ERISA for all ERISA
plans. R. Doc. 21-3. Second, the 2015 legislative audit of OGHS states "The
Opelousas General Hospital Authority (the "Hospital") was created under the laws
of the State of Louisiana pursuant to a Trust Indenture executed . . . for the
benefit of the [Hospital Service] District [No. 2] and is a public
instrumentality of the State of Louisiana." LOUISIANA LEGISLATIVE AUDITOR,
Hospital Service District No. 2 of St. Landry Parish, Louisiana and Opelousas
General Hospital Authority, Financial Report (Jun. 30, 2015), available at
https://
app.lla.state.la.us/PublicReports.nsf/05802C0CCCEC002E862580E2006C4718/$FILE/000
12B98.pdf. Third, OGHS--as a public trust--is exempt from state and federal
taxes, and the property of the Trust is considered public property. LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 9:2347(M) ("The property of any public trust . . . is hereby
declared to be public property used for essential public and governmental
purposes. . . . [S]uch public trust, and all of its properties at any time owned
by it and the income therefrom and all bonds issued by it and the income
therefrom, shall be exempt from all taxes of the parish or municipality, the
state, or any political subdivision thereof or any other taxing body.").
Finally, all meetings of the Board of Trustees of OGHS are open to the public,
and the minutes of each meeting are public record to the same extent required by
law for the beneficiary--Hospital Service District No. 2. LA. REV. STAT. ANN. §
19:2342(D) ("Meetings of the trustees of all public trusts shall be open to the
public and the records of all public trusts shall be public records to the same
extent as is required by law for the beneficiary.").
 55 Because OGHS need only meet one prong of the Hawkins test for the Court to
make a finding that OGHS is a political subdivision for the purposes of ERISA,
the Court will not consider whether OGHS was created directly by the state, so
as to constitute a department or administrative arm of the government. Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 10 of 16
 11
 for the purposes of determining whether a plan is exempt as a governmental
plan.56 The Fifth Circuit has adopted the six-factor test provided in Internal
Revenue Service Revenue Ruling 57-128, as refined by Internal Revenue Service
Revenue Ruling 89-49, as the appropriate test for determining whether an entity
is an agency or instrumentality of a governmental entity.57 In Revenue Ruling
57-128, the IRS set forth the following six factors to be considered in
determining whether a particular entity is an agency or instrumentality of a
state or political subdivision:
 (1) whether it is used for a governmental purpose and performs a governmental
function; (2) whether performance of its function is on behalf of one or more
states or political subdivisions; (3) whether there are any private interests
involved, or whether the states or political subdivisions involved have the
powers and interests of an owner; (4) whether control and supervision of the
organization is vested in public authority or authorities; (5) if express or
implied statutory or other authority is necessary for the creation and/or use of
such an instrumentality, and whether such authority exists; and (6) the degree
of financial autonomy and the source of its operating expenses.58
 Revenue Ruling 89-49 refined Revenue Rule 57-128, stating:
 One of the most important factors to be considered in determining whether an
organization is an agency or instrumentality of the United States or any state
or political subdivision is the degree of control that the federal or state
government has over the organization's everyday operations. Other factors
include: (1) whether there is specific legislation creating the organization;
(2) the source of funds for the organization; (3) the manner in which the
organization's trustees or operating board are selected; and (4) whether the
applicable governmental unit considers the employees of the organization to be
employees of the applicable governmental unit. Although all of the above factors
are considered in determining whether an organization is an agency of a
government, the mere satisfaction of one or all of the factors is not
necessarily determinative.59
 56 Smith, 827 F.3d at 417-18.
 57 Id. at 420.
 58 Rev. Rul. 57-128, 1957-1 C.B. 311.
 59 Rev. Rul. 89-49, 1989-1 C.B. 117. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35
Filed 05/31/17 Page 11 of 16
 12
 The Court must consider the factors provided in these Revenue Rulings to
determine whether OGHS is either an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital
Service District No. 2.
 First, OGHS was created "for the public purposes hereinafter set forth as a
public instrumentality of the state or a subdivision or agency thereof, under
the provisions of Act. No. 135, 1970, [Louisiana Revised Statutes] 9:2341, et
seq."60 Louisiana's public trust statute states that a public trust may be
created "to issue obligations and to provide funds for the furtherance and
accomplishment of any authorized public functions"61 such as "hospital, medical,
health, nursery care, nursing care, clinical, ambulance, laboratory and related
services and entities."62 The Court finds Unum's argument that providing
hospital services is not a "traditional government function" unpersuasive.63
Louisiana's public trust statute expressly provides that a public trust may be
created for the "public function" of administering hospital and medical
services. Accordingly, the Court finds this factor weighs in favor of finding
OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 Second, OGHS performs its functions on behalf of the Hospital Service District
No. 2, a political subdivision of Louisiana. Pursuant to the Trust Indenture,
the Hospital Service District No. 2 is the beneficiary of the public trust, and
is the owner of the hospital. OGHS provides the day-to-day operations of the
hospital, but the hospital exists "for the use and benefit" of the Hospital
Service District No. 2.64 This factor weighs in favor of
 60 R. Doc. 21-2 at 1.
 61 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(A).
 62 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(B)(1)(a).
 63 R. Doc. 20-1.
 64 R. Doc. 21-2 at 1. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
12 of 16
 13
 finding OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District
No. 2, a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 Third, although there are private interests involved, as the members of the
Board of Trustees serve in their capacities as citizens of St. Landry Parish,
the Hospital Service District No. 2 has the powers and interests of an owner.
Although OGHS runs the day-to-day operations of the hospital, the Hospital
Service District No. 2 is the owner. The January 25, 1972 Resolution of Hospital
Service District No. 2 transferred the management and supervision of the
Opelousas General Hospital to "the Opelousas General Hospital Authority, a
Public Trust, . . . pursuant to the terms and conditions of a Management
Contract executed by and between the Hospital Service District No. 2 of St.
Landry Parish, Louisiana, as Owner and the Opelousas General Hospital Authority,
a Public Trust, as Manager."65 Further, as discussed above, the Hospital Service
District No. 2 has the power to appoint and remove members of the OGHS Board of
Trustees, a majority of whom are Commissioners of the Hospital Service District
No. 2. This factor weighs in favor of finding OGHS is an agency or
instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a political subdivision
of the State of Louisiana.
 Consideration of the fourth factor--whether control and supervision of the
organization is vested in public authority--is highly contested by the parties,
as there are facts that support both arguments. On the one hand, neither the St.
Landry Parish Council nor the Hospital Service District No. 2 controls the
finances or day-to-day operations of the hospital. OGHS generates its own
funding, hires its own employees, and provides its
 65 R. Doc. 21-7 at 1 (emphasis added). Further, the statutory purpose of the
Hospital Service District No. 2 is "to own and operate hospitals." LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 46:1052. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
13 of 16
 14
 own benefits.66 The Trust Indenture provides the Hospital Service District No.
2 has no "authority, power or right, whatsoever, to do or transact any business
for, or on behalf of, or binding upon the Trustees or upon the Trust Estate."67
On the other hand, as discussed above, the Board of Trustees, which conducts the
affairs of the OGHS, is appointed by the Hospital Service District No. 2. Five
of the nine Trustees are Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2,
who are appointed by the St. Landry Parish Council. In reality, control of OGHS
is vested the Hospital Service District No. 2 as the Commission controls the
governing board of OGHS. This factor weighs in favor of finding OGHS is an
agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 The fifth factor directs the Court to consider whether express or implied
statutory authority is necessary "for the creation and/or use of . . . an
instrumentality."68 The statute governing the Hospital Service District No. 2
authorizes it "to enter into lease agreements with recognized and duly
constituted nonprofit associations which are primarily engaged in the operation
of hospitals,"69 such as OGHS. Although no special act of the legislature
brought OGHS into existence, the use of OGHS to manage, operate, and administer
a hospital is legislatively authorized.70 This factor weighs in favor of finding
OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 66 The parties agree that employees of OGHS are not employees of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 or the Parish Council.
 67 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 68 Rev. Rul. 57-128, 1957-1 C.B. 311.
 69 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055(A)(9).
 70 Id. at § 1055(B) ("[T]he commission may enter into a special services
agreement with any person, including but not limited to a hospital management
firm or hospitals, to manage, operate, and administer a hospital or hospitals,
or any part thereof, under the control of the commission for the benefit of the
hospital service district."). Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 14 of 16
 15
 The sixth factor--degree of financial autonomy--weighs against OGHS being an
agency or instrumentality of a political subdivision. Under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, all debts of OGHS are payable solely from the Trust Estate.71
The Trust Indenture provides the Hospital Service District No. 2, as
beneficiary, "shall have no liability for any bonds, notes, or indebtedness of
any type whatsoever of the Trust" and will have no "liability for costs incurred
in the operation of the Trust, or for any actions or omission of the Trustees or
others representing the Trust."72 Further, the Hospital Service District No. 2
has "no legal title, claim or right to the Trust Estate, its income, or to any
part thereof, or to demand or require any partition or distribution thereof."73
The Court finds OGHS to be financially autonomous with respect to the Hospital
Service District No. 2, and this factor weighs against finding OGHS is an agency
or instrumentality of a political subdivision.
 Examining the factors to be considered in determining whether an entity is an
agent or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision, the Court
concludes that OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service
District No. 2, which is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.74
Therefore, the Court finds the Plaintiff's plan is a governmental plan exempt
from ERISA's coverage pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1).75
 Accordingly;
 71 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 72 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 73 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 74 The Court recognizes that Revenue Ruling 89-49 refined Revenue Ruling 57-128
by stating the "control" factor is the most important. The Court has given due
weight to this factor in its analysis.
 75 Although the Court lacks federal question subject matter jurisdiction
because of the finding that ERISA does not apply, the Court maintains subject
matter jurisdiction over this matter because the parties are diverse.
Accordingly, this matter will remain on the Court's docket, the Court will apply
Louisiana law, and the Plaintiff is entitled to a jury trial. Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 15 of 16
 16
 CONCLUSION
 IT IS ORDERED that the motion for partial summary judgment filed by Unum Life
Insurance Company of America is DENIED.
 New Orleans, Louisiana, this 31st day of May, 2017.
 _____________________________
 SUSIE MORGAN
 UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 16 of 16
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                           September 3, 2016 Saturday

PG doctors asked to stay away from politics

LENGTH: 660  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Sept. 3 -- In order to curb the culture of politics in medical
institutions, the Punjab government has imposed a complete ban on political
activities at teaching hospitals and directed the newly inducted postgraduate
trainee doctors not to become part of any such event.

A PG trainee would not be allowed to be a part of any political party or member
of medical or dental wing of any political organisation during the entire period
of training. The principal/head of institution were also empowered to terminate
the contract of such PG trainees without serving any prior notice.

The government officials privy to this development claimed that the Specialised
Healthcare and Medical Education (SH&ME) Department has made strict disciplinary
rules and regulation in the regard. In other words, newly inducted PG trainees
have been warned to stay away from political activities the Young Doctors
Association (YDA) in public hospitals.

Formed some eight years ago, the Punjab YDA was represented by over 20,000 young
doctors at all government hospitals of the province. The main strength of the
association has been the postgraduate trainees and house officers. Young doctors
have been giving tough time to the provincial government over central induction
policy (CIP) for PG trainee programmes, including FCPS, MD, MDS and MS.

Sources further said that SH&ME significantly increased the PG slots in past
while currently, more than 4,500 PG training slots were available in the public
sector teaching hospital in Punjab. Now, ending the medics' monopoly, department
has devised a comprehensive transparent system generated through merit-based PG
induction policy named 'Punjab Post-Graduate Training Programme' after unanimous
consensus from all stakeholders. In order to facilitate the institutions and
aspiring doctors, the SH&ME secretary would devise regulations for its
implementation at all levels.

That SH&ME Department has written a letter to all principals of medical colleges
and medical superintendents (MS) of teaching hospitals, directing them to keep a
close eye on such movements in their institutions.

According to rules, a PG trainee doctor would not be entitled for private
practice or second job at any other hospital/institution during the training
period. The PG training is a full-time residential job and they shall perform
duty in department ward as per duty roster defined by head of department.

No official accommodation would be provided to the PG trainee during the period
of training. However, a non-furnished room on single or share-basis would be
provided to the PG trainees subject to payment of utility charges/room rent and
availability in the hospital/hostel. The provision of hostel accommodation is
purely made to ensure round the clock availability of PG doctors in hospitals/
ward.

The total duration of the course would be as per stipulated period of the
programme chosen out of which the contract for one year would be granted
(extendable on yearly bases subject to satisfactory performance). The PG would
be entitled to draw stipend as fixed by the government as admissible under the
rules and subject to availability of stipendiary seats in the respective
specialty in the respective institute where he/she is placed.

Once a PG trainee dropped or leaves the course incomplete, he/she would not be
eligible to rejoin the course until decided by the hardship committee. The
contract of PG trainee could be terminated at any time during the training
period in case of violation of contract agreement, misconduct, absence or poor
performance as per disciplinary rules.

The PG trainee shall not be allowed to change his/her course at any stage during
the study for which he/she initially recommended by the Joint Admission
Committee.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Manly Daily (Australia)

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 439  words


Values close to

hospital will fall

I AGREE with Dave McLean (Opinion, April 12) about real estate agent Mr Hosking
saying prices have increased 10 per cent around the proposed hospital at Frenchs
Forest.

As a valuer for many years I think values close to such a large establishment
will fall, especially during planning and construction. Values around Hornsby
Hospital are often worth less than homes further away in a residential zone.

When the specialists moved out of a medical facility adjoining the hospital
grounds at Hornsby it became a childcare centre for lack of medical interest.
Many specialists have relocated to a purpose-built building at Pymble station
and the San.

Hornsby, like Frenchs Forest, is off a main bus and train route. People might be
taken there by ambulance but public transport is important for follow-up visits.
Specialists will probably relocate to Dee Why or Warringah Mall unless a large
private hospital is attached to the new hospital.

John Randall, Mona Vale

Solution: Ban all

political donations

DEAR Julie Sutton, Peter Moxham and Andrew Humpherson: Do you support a total
ban on all political donations monetary and in kind from property developers and
real estate agents to any and all state and local political parties and
individuals and a ban on real estate agents and/or property developers serving
on local councils and in State Government (MD, April 13)? If you're so outraged
about Dick Persson (reported to have heard about) supposed falling property
developer donations to the Liberal Party since he took over you could bolster
your credibility by leading an effort to end this potential onerous and
corrosive means of government capture by narrow property interests. That would
be the most logical and constructive extension of your outrage. Julie, Peter,
Andrew? Answers please.

Stewart Taggart, Fairlight

Failure to see

bigger picture

THE continuing debate over the Sierra Leone immigrants has failed to highlight
one of the most important issues confronting the world today the plight of
Africa.

We have been inundated with stories about how these people love Australia (and
the northern beaches) and how good we are as a nation to allow these few poor
souls a chance to escape to ''the lucky country''. Very little has been said
about the dire situation in Sierra Leone (and other parts of Africa) and even
less about prospects for improving Africa.

It strikes me as sad when a story such as this, that should encourage greater
understanding and help to the most ignored continent in the world, does little
more than give us a greater sense of self-satisfaction.

Nathaniel Stapleton, Beacon Hill

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MAN


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday

on the front line

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 973 words


In a bid to get a clearer picture of the casualties during the recent political
violence, The Nation's Chularat Saengpassa and Pongphon Sarnsamak talked with
key people at some of Bangkok's hospitals near the conflict zone.

Chularat Saengpassa

Pongphon Sarnsamak

The Nation

On their arrival in the hospital, their condition spoke a great deal about what
the victims of the political violence on the city's streets had just been
through.

Their arrival time also reflected what had happened during Bangkok's darkest
days.

Just as the military was preparing to deploy troops around the Rajprasong
intersection, 21 men were rushed to Lerdsin Hospital with stomachache and
vomiting at 1.15am on May 14. All said their symptoms developed after receiving
free coffee from an unidentified donor.

"Eighteen of them needed to be admitted," Lerdsin Hospital's deputy director, Dr
Boonchai Pipatwanichkul, said, "But all patients in the batch were safe".

Boonchai added that dregs of the coffee were sent to the Department of Medical
Sciences for examination.

"We think the coffee might have been laced with a heavy dose of soporific
drugs," he said.

Later that day, as many as eight victims were sent to the Lerdsin Hospital for
treatment - the first casualties of gunshots.

"The first arrived at around 3pm," the hospital's deputy director recounted, "He
was shot in the left shoulder".

Of the seven other patients, Boonchai said three needed to be admitted for
treatment.

On the same day - May 14 - Rajavithi Hospital treated up to 30 riot victims with
the first patient registering at 2.30pm.

"All patients coming in on that day were injured in skirmishes at Samliam Din
Daeng, Makkasan, Pratunam, and Rajprarop areas," Dr Naruemon Sawanpanyalerd of
the Department of Medical Services based at Rajavithi Hospital, said.

She said not all patients on May 14 were badly hurt; some arrived with just
light injuries to their hands and arms.

"But when night fell, things turned more frightening," Naruemon recounted, "I
was at Soi Rajvithi 3 with our mobile emergency unit and I could hear gunshots
every now and then."

She said the frequency of hospitalisation was getting higher, as darkness
blanketed the capital.

"When midnight passed, we started seeing people with serious wounds," the doctor
said. Three victims, including one Naruemon was trying to help with first aid,
died at 3am on the way to Rajavithi.

Accounts from Ramathibodi Hospital were pretty similar.

"At 1.53pm on May 14, the first victim arrived at our facility. He was shot in
the left foot and in the right shank," the hospital's deputy director Dr Surasak
Leela-udomlipi disclosed.

After that, more victims continued to pour in. "The frequency of hospitalisation
was getting higher as the clock ticked past 4.30pm," he said.

Surasak said his hospital received the first dead body resulting from the
political violence that night. "The victim died before his arrival in the
hospital. He had been shot in the neck," the hospital's deputy director said.

On May 15, three more bodies arrived. "Two were shot in the chest while the
other was in the head," Surasak said.

Boonchai described May 15 as the most hectic day of all.

"Although not many patients were rushed in, those who did come had critical
injuries," he said. Twelve casualties, all in need of urgent operations were
sent to Lerdsin Hospital on May 15. Two died upon arrival. And two others
succumbed to their injuries, despite medical treatment, later.

"They were shot either in the head, the chest or in the abdomen," Boonchai
explained.

As skirmishes continued, the Lerdsin Hospital treated nine more victims on May
16, one of whom died. On the same day, Naruemon said many victims were sent to
the Rajavithi Hospital with wounds to their hands and fingers. "Most of them
from Samliam Dindaeng," she revealed.

The number of deaths and injuries dropped somewhat in following days.

Even on May 19 when troops surged to the Rajprasong intersection, not so many
cases flooded into these hospitals.

"On that day, we treated just four victims," Surasak of the Ramathibodi Hospital
said. At the Lerdsin Hospital, eight casualties showed up and two were released
within the same day.

Naruemon said the Rajavithi Hospital received three to four victims on May 19.
"One was a woman and she died from a wound to her leg," the doctor said.

In the wee hours of May 20, two more victims walked in with minor injuries, in
addition to four firemen hospitalised for smoke-related symptoms.

In all, Naruemon said her hospital had treated up to 83 riot victims between May
14 and May 20. Of this number, nine people died, ranging in age from 17 to 64
years.

Phyathai 1 Hospital's chief operating officer Kraivin Srikraivin, meanwhile,
said 23 victims - including a senior photographer from The Nation- were sent to
his facility between May 14 and May 19. Of this number, five died from their
injuries.

Kluaynamthai Hospital's director, Dr Suwinai Busarakamwongs, said the hospital
had received 64 people injured from skirmishes in the Bon Kai area from May
14-19. Four of them died.

Suwinai said most victims sustained gunshot wounds, including some facial
injuries.

Charoenkrung Pracharak Hospital's acting director Dr Suksan Kittisupakorn said
up to 30 victims of the political violence showed up at his facility between May
14 and May 17, two of whom died. The victims were between 20 and 70 years old.

Boonchai said the Lerdsin Hospital had tended to 42 riot casualties between May
14 and May 20.

However, he said the political violence started in April. From that time on, he
said Lerdsin Hospital had treated nearly 100 victims at a cost of Bt1.4million.

"A patient needed a shoulder replacement - and that alone cost Bt400,000," he
said.

Next: The injured recollect those nightmarish days tomorrow.

See the name list of dead victims in www.nationmultimedia.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 28, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Columbia Hospital Gave $15,000 To GOP, Breaking Charity Rules; Former
Administrator Blames Simple Mistake; Funds Returned

Charles R. Babcock, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 452 words


When G. Patrick Kane, then head of Columbia Hospital for Women, received an
invitation to attend the Republican National Committee's gala fund-raising event
last February, he thought it would be good public relations to attend, he
recalls. So he wrote a $ 15,000 hospital check to buy a table.

One problem: Charitable organizations are prohibited from making political
donations.

Last week, after a reporter inquired about what the Republicans reported as a $
15,000 "soft money" contribution, a Columbia Hospital spokeswoman said the
hospital's attorney called the committee to request the funds be returned. The
GOP immediately offered to send the money back.

Corporations, charitable or profit-making, are not permitted to donate to
federal candidates. But parties can collect "soft money" from non-charitable
corporations to help pay administrative costs and for generic party-building
activities such as "Vote Republican" ads and get-out-the-vote drives.

The Republican gala at the Washington Convention Center was attended by more
than 4,000 people, raised a record $ 11 million and featured singer Natalie Cole
and a white chocolate replica of the Capitol dome filled with raspberry mousse.

Columbia Hospital spokeswoman Mary Beth Emerson said that the decision to send
in the $ 15,000 was solely Kane's and that the hospital board wasn't aware of
the donation. "We are not in the business, never have been in the business, of
making contributions except to health-related organizations," she said.

The committee's offices were closed for the holidays yesterday.

Kane, who was the hospital's president and chief executive officer, said in an
interview that it never occurred to him that the check would be considered a
political donation, so he didn't check with the hospital's attorney.

"I equated it to buying a table at the mayor's prayer breakfast, or buying an ad
in The Post, as something to promote the medical center," he said.

Kane, who retired in April, said he viewed the dinner to celebrate the
Republican takeover of Congress as good exposure that "hopefully would turn into
more patients for the hospital. . . . The Republicans had nothing to do with it.
I was looking at them as potential patients."

Kane's successor, Susan Hansen, who arrived in September, said the hospital's
corporate parent, the Columbia Hospital for Women Foundation, supports several
community outreach projects. Those include a teen health center it operates in
Southeast Washington and free mammography tests it offers to women who don't
have health insurance or are otherwise unable to pay. She could find no record
in a review of the books of other political donations, she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              203 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                        February 23, 1988, Tuesday, EAS

Reader defends Tories on hospital bed shortage

SECTION: NEIGHBORS; Pg. E4

LENGTH: 286 words


   Political parties are not infallible, nor are we as individuals. Certainly,
the same can be said for our institutions. On the other hand, criticism which
has no basis in fact demands a response.

Regrettably, in his letter published in the Neighbors section on Jan. 26, Ed
Sawdon has chosen to re-write history, a malady that is becoming commonplace
among Liberals and their supporters. (Sawdon said the Ontario Progressive
Conservatives "did zilch in allocating further active care beds" to Whitby
General Hospital between 1969 and 1985.)

Approval and financial assistance for the hospital was obtained from the P.C.
government of John Robarts. From the outset, it was designated a tertiary
facility and thus, growth potential was limited for a number of years.

During the Tory government of William Davis, the second floor of the hospital
was opened as a chronic-care ward.

Apparently, Sawdon is unaware that it is the responsibility of both the hospital
and the district health council to request approval from the government for
additional beds, be they active care or chronic care.

Based on statements contained in his letter, Sawdon is also unaware that this is
the first time Whitby General Hospital has requested additional active care
beds. No other government has been asked to pass judgment on this request.

Whitby General is in dire need of active care beds. The decision to deny this
request rests solely with Premier David Peterson, Health Minister Elinor Caplin
and the Liberal caucus.

Perhaps it's time that Liberals recognized the government will be held
accountable for its decisions. It is the price of leadership, or the lack of the
same.

STEPHANIE BALL

Oshawa

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              204 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday

Call for unity

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 160

LENGTH: 503  words


Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif has stressed the need for forging unity to
cope with the challenges being faced by the country.

'Celebrating the 70th Independence Day with zeal and fervour, we all must rise
above politics' he said while talking to the media at the flag-hoisting ceremony
at the Lahore Fort Monday.

The chief minister also stressed the need for political stability. 'Pakistan is
a nuclear power with ability to crush the enemy. But we should also take stock
of our past and see why the country is still political and economically weak. We
must work jointly to make Pakistan prosperous,' he observed.

He paid tribute to the Pakistan Movement veterans and called for following in
the footsteps of Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Allama Muhammad Iqbal. He
also paid homage to the martyrs of war on terror.

Shehbaz Sharif on this occasion also came down hard on political opponents as he
accused them of committing corruption using political influence.

'There are people who got their loans written-off though political influence.
There are people whose corruption scandals are known to everybody. Such people
have their assets abroad', he said, adding that corruption would be curbed at
all costs. He said Pakistan was established to give equal opportunities to
everyone.

Lord Mayor Col(r) Mubashar Javed presented the welcome address. The diplomats of
China, Turkey, Iran and the US, provincial ministers, chief secretary and senior
civil and military officers were also present.

After the event, Shehbaz paid a surprised visit to Manawan Hospital and had a
round of all the units. The 100-bed hospital is newly-constructed on a 49-kanal
of land.

'Modern medical facilities have been provided. The hospital is a gift for the
people living in the border area,' he said and directed the administration o to
make it a model for other hospitals.

He said Punjab had the credit of setting the trend of international standard
hospitals for the poor. He said Recep Tayyip Hospital in Muzzafargarh, Burns
Unit in Multan and Shehbaz Sharif Hospital in Lahore were a few examples where
best medical facilities were available. He said provision of medical facilities
to the poor was his mission and he will continue with it.

Health Week message

Also, in his Health Week message, the chief minister said that his government
had increased the health budge to bring in betterment.

'The improvement in health sector and provision of best facilities are the
priorities of the government. Billions of rupees have been spent for the
purpose,' he said, adding that considerable improvement in the health sector had
been witnessed due to result-oriented measures of the Punjab government. He said
he was personally monitoring the health programmes across Punjab.

He said blood screening and vaccination camps will be set up at THQs and DHQs
this week and free medical check-up of pregnant women and vaccination will be
provided to the children. He said free tests of hepatitis, aids, malaria and
tuberculosis will be carried out.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     November 5, 1998, Thursday, Edition 1

HARRIS ACCEPTS HOSPITAL HEAT

BYLINE: Caroline Mallan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


Premier airs old TV clip, denies closings his idea


 QUEEN'S PARK BUREAU

 Premier Mike Harris attempted to beat his critics to the punch
 yesterday by showing a television clip from the 1995 election in
 which he said he had no plans to close Ontario hospitals.
 The clip, part of a debate during the election that brought the
 Tories to power, has been raised repeatedly by the opposition
 ever since the government-appointed Health Services Restructuring
 Commission began announcing hospital closings. More than four
 dozen are to shut their doors.
 In it, Harris states: ''No, certainly I can guarantee you . . .
 that it is not my plan to close hospitals.''
 ''That's me, that's what I said,'' the Premier said after showing
 the five-second clip to the Ontario Hospital Association
 convention. ''I understand that this sort of clip is virtually
 irresistible to opposition politicians . . . I could have taken
 the easy way out and left half-empty hospitals open.''
 Harris said he listened instead to experts in the field and
 relied on their opinions to reform Ontario's health-care system.
 He added he is willing to pay the political price for following
 recommendations of the commission his government appointed.
 ''We had to do the right thing even though it meant taking the
 political heat.''
 The Premier told reporters later he did not break his promise to
 the people of Ontario and that the clip, which no doubt will
 feature heavily in the next election campaign, was taken out of
 context.
 ''It's an acknowledgment that it's a tough, tough political
 decision to close hospitals, to know that there is a clip there
 that could be pulled out of context and used against you.''
 Harris said his pre-election promise on health care was to find
 savings and reinvest them in the system.
 'People . . . rely on their own good judgment. Mike Harris said
 he wouldn't close hospitals, period. He's closed 45, period. He
 lied, end of story.'
 Liberal Leader
 Dalton McGuinty

 David MacKinnon, president of the OHA, said most in the field
 agree change was needed in how hospitals are run but he added the
 image of too much wasted space in Ontario's hospitals is not
 accurate.
 ''Over-all, the notion that the system is half-empty is not at
 all realistic. In fact, the system, right now is 90 per cent
 full,'' MacKinnon said.
 Harris' speech to the OHA was a last-minute change of plans for
 the premier. Traditionally, the health minister addresses the
 closing day of the convention.
 ''I think it's important the people of Ontario understand: We
 took a difficult decision . . . but we're well aware that it had
 not been taken for 10 years because there is political heat
 associated with the change.''
 Liberal Leader Dalton McGuinty said the people of Ontario have
 every right to doubt Harris' word and judge his government based
 on the short TV clip.
 ''At the end of the day, people trust their own instincts and
 rely on their own good judgment. Mike Harris said he wouldn't
 close hospitals, period. He's closed 45, period. He lied. End of
 story.''



LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              206 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 23, 1991, Thursday

Trust hospitals 'to stay in NHS'

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS TIMMINS, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 335 words


JOHN MAJOR yesterday ruled out the future privatisation of NHS Trust hospitals
as Robin Cook, Labour's spokesman on health, again challenged the Government to
postpone the second wave of trusts.

On a visit to Exeter, the Prime Minister declared: ''The fact is these hospitals
remain in the NHS and will do so in future.''

His pledge, effectively, not to privatise may help to silence some internal NHS
opposition to the trusts, amid the widespread suspicion that Margaret Thatcher
in part approved them - at the time of the NHS review - as a possible first step
to privatisation.

Meanwhile, addressing the Royal College of Nursing's conference at Harrogate
yesterday, Mr Cook gave a warning that it would take at least the lifetime of
one Labour government to rebuild the health service.

The reintegration of ''opted out'' hospital trusts into district health
authorities would begin as soon as possible after a Labour victory at the next
general election, he said.

But Mr Cook also said that this might not be the appropriate solution for some
trust hospitals - such as the Christie Hospital in Manchester. ''They should
perhaps be accountable to regional assemblies or special health authorities.''
He was not able to give any details.

Mr Cook, who received a standing ovation from nurses, also said that a future
Labour government would adequately fund the NHS and take into account
demographic changes, such as increasing numbers of elderly and new medical
technology. He refused to be drawn on figures.

Christine Hancock, general secretary to the RCN, welcomed Mr Cook's speech but
said that she was disappointed he had given no indication of the level of
funding for the health service. The RCN estimates that an additional pounds 6bn
is needed.

Miss Hancock also made it clear that nurses would not be used as pawns in
political manoeuvring in the run-up to a general election. The ''bitter''
arguments between political parties must stop and constructive debate resume,
she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                              207 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           January 28, 1989 Saturday

POLITICAL GAMES WITH THE DYING

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: CHARLTON P

LENGTH: 573 words


Political games with the dying T HE critical position in which Mount Olivet
Hospital finds itself reflects no credit on either the Federal or the State
Governments. Since July last year, the hospital has received no federal funding,
although the Federal Government has approved spending of $2.4 million once a new
Medicare agreement is signed. According to the hospital's chairman, Mr Justice
Carter, the hospital is the meat in the sandwich and that peoples' lives are
being used as bargaining tools. The judge has a point. The Federal Government
has said the hospital can have the money once the State Government signs the
Medicare agreement. The State Government, however, has not signed the agreement
and this week a spokesman for the new Health Minister, Mr Gibbs, said he did not
know whether the agreement would be signed. In the meantime, a whole floor of
the hospital has been closed and the entire hospital is threatened with closure.
Public response to the hospital's plight has been marvellous, with donations
being made to keep the operations going. But this should not be a matter for
public charity. Mount Olivet has a special and important place in Queensland's
health system; it is unthinkably cruel and harsh that its patients and potential
patients suffer because of a Federal-State wrangle. The history of Federal-State
health political relations has been virtually one long fight. During Mr Austin's
period as Health Minister, clashes with the Federal Government were common. Mrs
Harvey brought a similarly combative approach to her work. It is high time this
approach ended. Queensland's medical financing is special, because of the
State's ""free" public hospitals. Since the introduction of Medicare, this has
been a sticking-point in negotiations with the Federal Government. All State
Health Ministers have claimed that the State was disadvantaged because of this
factor. Surely after nearly six years, this problem is capable of sensible and
satisfactory resolution. At the same time, the Federal Government should ensure
that terminally ill patients, in need of places in Mount Olivet and other,
similar hospitals, should be covered by the Medicare umbrella. What use is
health cover if it does not provide assistance for these cases? The
terminally-ill will always need places like Mount Olivet; we should, as a
community, provide institutions in which they can spend their last days with
dignity. The Mount Olivet case is special. This hospital provides a valuable
service in an area of medicine where few alternatives exist. The hospital does a
wonderful job, working with scarce resources and with huge demands. It gives
comfort to many people with terminal illnesses. It should be given wide public
support, not forced to pare its operations because of a political wrangle _ and
an unedifying political wrangle at that. If Mr Gibbs wants to make his mark as a
new Health Minister, he should make it his personal project to end, for all
time, the wrangling over Queensland's health system. In the process, he should
ensure that Mount Olivet gets the money it needs to survive and fulfil its role.
This is not a time for States rights to be trotted out again, or for the State
Government to take yet another opportunity to score political points off
Canberra. In this case, it is affecting the lives of dying people _ people who
deserve the comfort and serenity which Mount Olivet can provide.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1989 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              208 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     November 12, 1998, Thursday, Edition 1

IT'S TIME TO REALLY TALK ABOUT HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: Howard Hampton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words


Sadly, political debate in Ontario has sunk to a new low this
 week.
 The Harris Conservatives are trying to distract attention from
 the chaos and failure of their health-care policies with millions
 of dollars worth of partisan attack ads on the easiest target
 imaginable: the vagueness of Ontario Liberal policies.
 It may well be true that Dalton McGuinty will keep his views
 hidden as long as possible, then, if elected, continue on the
 same track as the Conservatives. But I fail to see how a
 television and newspaper bombardment of American/Republican-style
 partisan advertising will address the very real concerns that the
 Ontario public has with the massive cuts and changes that the
 Harris government has levelled on Ontario's health-care system.
 As with its education agenda, the Harris government's health-care
 plans are about cuts, not quality. According to the Ontario
 Hospital Association, almost half our hospitals are insolvent.
 The community and home-care reinvestments that are supposed to
 replace services that used to be provided in hospitals are either
 underfunded or non-existent. More and more patients and their
 families are being forced to pay out of pocket for health care or
 do without. In Ontario, the gold card is replacing the health
 card.
 The Ontario NDP has done its homework. Starting last year, we
 issued a discussion paper on health policy, carried out meetings
 and discussions around the province as part of our Dialogue for
 Change, and then approved our party's policy in open debate at
 our convention last May.
 If elected we will introduce and pass Ontario's first Health Care
 Accountability Act and Patients' Bill of Rights to put the focus
 of Ontario's health care system where it belongs: on patients. We
 will provide increased funding for Ontario's hospitals to ensure
 adequate patient care. We will extend the principles of
 accessibility and universality to the long-term care sector
 (nursing homes, home care and community based care). We'll look
 at the services people need and what they've lost under the
 Harris cuts. And we'll provide the money to make sure everyone
 gets the appropriate services they need in their communities.
 We will pay for these commitments by rolling back the Harris
 income tax scheme for individuals who benefit the most, those
 with taxable incomes of $80,000 a year or more. We believe
 investing that $1.5 billion in health care, education and our
 communities is far wiser than giving it away to the people who
 already have the most money.
 Finally, if Mike Harris truly believes it is critical for the
 public to know where the party leaders stand on health care, I
 challenge him to scrap the attack ads and participate in a
 televised public debate with the Liberal Leader and me on the
 future of our health-care system and the future of our province.
 I'm sure the public would find a debate on the issues far more
 informative than his partisan propaganda.
 Howard Hampton is Leader of the Ontario New Democratic Party.




LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              209 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Fiji Times (Australia)

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Voice of the People

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1962 words


+++Purpose of the church

CHRISTIAN churches should uphold the purpose of the church, and that is to
uphold Christ before the people.

The church was not invented by men, but men have used it and misused it.

Christ founded the church and He is the head of the church and its Lord.

For Christ to be Lord, the church should come under the authority of His word
(Bible) and teaching.

The church and the Bible go together. The church exists to proclaim and exalt
the Christ of the Bible and nothing else.

The church that does not enthrone the Bible in the life of its people is false
to its mission. God gives individuals freedom and to make that freedom real, we
have to make choices that make us political being.

Christians should know and understand that they are individual political beings
and are free to align themselves to any political party of their choice.

The Christian church should promote and spread political freedom and Christian
leaders should avoid and refrain from voicing corporate political opinion in the
name of the church that people may not be misled in thinking the Christian
church as a cult among other religion.

!!!Rev. Basilio t. Kalokalodromu ,President Christian Natural Resource Owners!!!

+++Medical care

IS the Ministry of Health serious about privatising the Lautoka Hospital?

What has happened to Mahendra Chaudhry's Apollo Hospital? Is the interim
government now promoting health industry tourism?

Is the State's financial situation so bad that instead of promoting eco-tourism
we are now promoting health tourism?

How often do the interim ministers visit public hospitals when they are sick?

If they visit public hospitals regularly, why have they come up with such a
hilarious issue?

Everyone knows the state of our public hospitals.

If government is serious about cost-cutting, then it should target ministries
which do not directly deal with basic human rights.

If the Lautoka Hospital was privatised, where would all the employees go?

Secondly, where will people from the West go to for major operations and
treatment? And finally, who will take over the operations of Lautoka Hospital?

The Ministry of Health should release all details of their plans to the public
because, after all, we pay for the ministry's expenses.

We already have two private hospitals in this country and government should
negotiate with them to provide specialist services which government cannot
afford or contract out services which are non-vital.

Government must realise that this issue should be thrown out of the window
before more burden is put on the shoulders of the poor.

If Commodore Voreqe Bainimarama is serious about this issue, then he should send
all his 5000 soldiers home and use the arm-y budget to build a new hospital and
give it to his so-called "foreign investors".

!!!Nitin Prasad ,Lautoka!!!

+++Free Tibetans

IT is not surprising that the interim Government has written to China in support
of its stance on Lhasa.

For one thing it is ironic because they pretend to have respect for the
government of the day.

On the other hand it is not surprising for two reasons more loans and the common
factor of dictatorship. The Tibetans should be freed and the world should be rid
of dictators.

!!!Rick Trevor ,Nadi!!!

+++Integrity at stake

THE Fiji Muslim League and the Then India Sanmargya Ikya Sangam (TISI) should be
thanked for not joining the National Council for Building a Better Fiji (NCBBF).

The reasons cited by both organisations are valid and matches with the wishes of
its general membership and more importantly the objectives of the two
organisations.

However, the same cannot be said for the Shree Sanatan Dharam Pratinidhi Sabha
Fiji, especially its president.

The NCBBF was formed by the interim Government which was put in place after an
illegal activity contrary to the ideals of the Sanatan Dharam.

The first objective of the Sanatan Dharam as enshrined in its constitution is to
protect the interest/well-being and to raise awareness amongst the followers of
the Sanatan faith.

Hinduism/Sanatan Dharam is the oldest of the world's faiths.

It is a dharma or way of life evolved by the great sages and seers.

Dharma means "right wa-y of living" and "proper conduct" in a religious sense.

With respect to spirituality, dharma might be considered the way of the higher
truths. And most certainly, the Sanatan Dharam Fiji has erred by breaking away
from its ideals.

By joining the NCBBF, it has sided with the unfaithful, injustice and
unrighteousness thus putting the integrity of the organisation at stake.

At the Sanatan convention in Navua, the members voiced their concern on this
issue. However small it might be, I urge the president and other executives to
reconsider their decision.

!!!Anil Kumar ,Lautoka!!!

+++True son of Fiji

I WOULD like to thank The Fiji Times for its tribute "A fallen son of Fiji" (FT
21/3) and obituary (FT 22/3) on the life of Sir John (Ian) Sutherland Thomson.

The articles had me in tears as I reminisced over my life as a young girl with
barely two years of work experience and chosen to be personal assistant to this
truly great man in his last four years of service in Fiji.

Sir Ian took me under his wing and tutored me.

I look back at those years, not as work experience, but as a learning one where
a foundation was laid which prepared me well for my future in the workforce.

Sir Ian spoke the Fijian language so fluently, that at times, it put me to shame
when I was gently corrected. I was taught how to answer the telephone when the
then Governor General or Cabinet ministers would call, and Sir Ian wasn't in the
office to receive it.

Little things he said but one has to learn to be correct and proper in such
things. Sir Ian, always the humble gentleman, had our office door open to all
who wanted to see him, even those that simply came to kerekere didn't leave
empty handed.

My memories of Sir Ian will live on as one who had an impact on my life.

Indeed, a great man and true son of Fiji.

Ni sa moce, ra turaga.

!!!Temalesi Vakaotia ,Nasinu!!!

+++Home meals

HOME-cooked meals are the best. Recently I walked through a public alley to get
to the other side of town without having to bump into people.

To my astonishment, I saw a kitchen hand in action with his chopper, chopping
meat outside the restaurant kitchen.

There was no consideration to his environment as there were flies, dust, fuel
and sweat involved in this process.

In order to acquire a restaurant permit, doesn't the authority carry out an
inspection of the kitchen and the premises first?

Do they conduct spot checks to ensure that standards are maintained?

I don't think so and this is evident in most canteens, restaurants and cafes in
Fiji. Maybe it's time to get FICAC involved in auditing procedures and not just
accounts, especially when it involves human beings.

!!!Margaret King ,Lautoka!!!

+++China loan

AS reported (FT 24/3), our government is taking a loan from China to the tune of
$170million to upgrade rural roads in our country.

Your article also told the public that this upgrading will mean the sealing of
some rural roads only like the Sigatoka Valley Road.

Are you kidding us with that $170m?

I have written to The Fiji Times before that in rural areas, that is farming
areas like the one mentioned above, residents use mostly tractors which can
handle a gravelled road anytime and therefore rural roads do not need immediate
upgrading, not for $170m anyway.

How about upgrading our "highways" (if you can call it that) first? From Suva to
Nadi, from Nausori to Rakiraki the main arteries for container trucks from the
Suva wharf to the Lautoka wharf, and all who depend on the highways for their
business travelling.

In my opinion, our highways need more urgent upgrading than some rural roads, so
a major priority should be given to that from the China loan to improve the
economy here with on-time business and less road deaths.

Our highways are full of potholes, unmarked humps etc. They are highways to hell
and many people die on it every year.

And now, perhaps the utmost priority that should be given to with the China loan
is to supply water to all people in Fiji at all times, which is not happening at
all.

Will the people in charge of obtaining these huge loans from China please
reconsider the priorities of our needs. And how will you pay back that loan?
With Fiji Water?

!!!Erwin Karl Skiba ,Suva!!!

+++Lowest paid

ECONOMIST Dr Wadan Narsey said garment workers earned $70-$80 a week and were
the lowest paid.

Please add to this list the employees of an American giant fast food chain
outlet which operates under franchise in Fiji via Australia and from all
accounts mints a fortune. The thought is disgusting.

!!!Frank Chand ,Suva!!!

+++Water to boil

WE all should take heed of General Manager Public Health Dr Tharid Ali's advice
on boiling drinking water during a typhoid outbreak. However, all those
responsible for supplying us with drinking water should ensure that there is
always water available to boil.

!!!Tahir Ali ,Nasinu!!!

+++Noisy churches

I WRITE to sympathise with Edward Andrews (FT 8/3) on noisy churches.

I suffer the same disturbance here in Muasara.

I have three private house churches within a half kilometer radius of my house.

These three places of worship are all different sects and noise can disturb from
4am to 9.30pm.

Why these small congregations need amplification at all I cannot see.

The worst offender is so loud, we sometimes cannot hear the TV. The singing on
its own is beautiful but then they add a band with a mindless drummer whose beat
and tempo bears no relation to the hymn music.

All it can be described as is a racket.

To crown it all, the talatala roars "Hallelujah" above the other cacophony.

This man, when preaching, screams and shouts and harangues his congregation. I
would think he must scare the poor souls to death. One of the instructions to
Christians from our Lord Jesus Christ is th-at we live in peace and harmony with
our fellow men.

To my mind disturbing the peace and quiet of a neighbourhood with raucous
services cannot be seen as living in peace and harmony with your fellow men.
These people should read and consider Luke 18:10-14 and Matthew 6:1-6 and think
about the still small voice of God.

!!!D. C. McLEISH ,Sigatoka!!!

+++Labasa librarian

I HAVE been a user of the Labasa Town Library for the past 14 years. I do not
agree with the remarks by Avikant D. Dutt (FT 03/03). The librarian is always
polite and helpful, not only to me but to other users.

!!!Aporosa Nasova ,Labasa!!!

+++Coup formula

CURRENT developments open a new coup formula for future coup makers.

They are as follows:

- Overthrow the elected government;

- Set up an Immune Decree and become PM;

- Militarise the police and State bureaucracy;

- Create NCBBF 11;

- Liaise with any sympathising clergy to co-chair your People's Charter, and

- Have a clause in the NCBBF II that you don't support any future military coups
and that you shall return to the barracks once the Charter is successfully
completed.

The above is a perfect formula that drives curiosity away from treason charges
against you because you merely throw the Charter mentality to the people and
everything will fall into place, after which you will be remembered as the
champion of NCBBF II instead of a treason evader.

!!!Vueti Cakau ,Taveuni!!!

+++Hopelessly defunct

AMONG Fiji's statutory bodies, NLTB ranks as almost hopelessly defunct.

They evicted many Wai-rabetia tenants. When I rang NLTB offering my freehold
land (water/power provided) for resettlement at a little cost, they kept
transferring my call, not knowing my language.

!!!M. S. Khalid ,Nausori!!!

+++Bully Bush

Why is President George W. Bush not jumping up and down over China? Why is he
sleeping while China kills the people of Tibet. He was quick to jump into Iraq.
Why not China?

!!!Mulchand Patel ,Suva!!!

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FIJ


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             The Malta Independent

                               December 15, 2013

Mater Dei must become autonomous - Frank Portelli

LENGTH: 1771  words


With Mater Dei Hospital currently being some 200 beds short of what is required
for the hospital's acute needs, and with the health system facing the reality
that it will need to provide an additional 150 beds for elderly patients each
year for the next 10 years, private hospital owner Frank Portelli believes there
is a lot more that could be done to remedy the situation at Mater Dei.

This week, the hospital was forced to put all non-essential surgery on hold due
to overcrowding and bed shortages at the hospital, and in the meantime wards are
once again being reconverted to accommodate patients that do not necessarily
belong there.

But, according to Dr Portelli, there is a lot more that can be done to alleviate
the bed shortages and overcrowding - not least of which are making Mater Dei
Hospital an autonomous institution and for the country's powers that be to cease
and desist from using the health sector as a political football.

Dr Portelli explains, "For many years, health issues have been a political
football: one political party tries to score points against another political
party - often at the patients' expense I must say.

"Whenever there is a change in government, the major political parties change
their position from defence to attack and vice versa. Since the change in
government March this year, the major political parties have switched roles -
where one used to attack the health service it now defends it and vice versa.

"This simply cannot go on as it harms the patient. Fortunately, there now seems
to be a general consensus that health should be removed from the partisan
political arena. I sincerely hope that this attitude will be maintained."   St
Philips Hospital - a First Division political football In the lead-up to the
last general election, Dr Portelli had been on the verge of signing on the
dotted line for a contract that would have seen the private hospital he owns, St
Philip's, being leased to the government in a bid to create the extra beds that
the health system so direly needs. But as the election drew near, the issue
became a heavily politicised one and the government of the day had backed out of
the deal.

"This," Dr Portelli says, "is an example of how health issues are turned into a
political football. An agreement had been reached with the previous
administration to lease the St Philips Hospital for rehabilitation purposes. The
Nationalist government did not honour its commitment, which forced us to file a
Judicial Protest prior to the last election.

"The next step is legal action seeking damages. However, we remain open to
amicable solutions. It would mean that 150 beds would be available at a fraction
of the cost of a bed at Mater Dei." While such a solution, had it been realised,
would have gone some way to alleviating Mater Dei's chronic overcrowding, Dr
Portelli contends there are other avenues to be explored.

He explains, "Currently, around 100 beds at Mater Dei are being blocked by
patients who do not require acute medical treatment at the hospital. These
patients require long-term care, and as such they need to be transferred to
another institution to look after their needs, their place is not at Mater Dei.

Similarly, another group of around 50 patients need to be moved out of Karin
Grech Hospital to another institution." As matters stand, Dr Portelli points out
that Mater Dei Hospital is currently 200 beds short of the health system's acute
needs and that, in actual fact, Mater Dei actually has fewer beds than its
predecessor St Luke's.

But despite the usual blame on the influenza season, which has not even hit in
earnest yet, the problem is not seasonal, it is endemic.

As Dr Portelli explains, "We are also short of beds for elderly patients and our
needs in this sector will continue to grow by around 150 beds every year for the
next 10 years.

"Let us not mince words - treating patients in hospital corridors is not
acceptable. Besides being undignified, there is also real risk that patients die
unnecessarily."   A PPP for the health sector Few realise the sheer numbers of
foreign patients that are admitted to Mater Dei Hospital, according to Dr
Portelli, who points out that in actual fact some 4,000 foreign patients are
admitted for treatment at Mater Dei Hospital every year.

"At an average of five bed nights per patient, this works out at a total of
20,000 bed nights at Mater Dei," Dr Portelli observes. "This translates into 55
beds being occupied every day of the year by foreign patients. Eighty per cent
of these patients are covered by the European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), and
their medical condition allows them to be transferred from Mater Dei to the
private sector." This state of affairs, Dr Portelli contends, should serve as
the first basis of a Public-Private Partnership between the state and private
hospitals where, he says, what is required is to enrol private hospitals and
clinics as 'National Health Service participating hospitals'.

"This," he says, "would enable private hospitals in Malta to receive
reimbursement for treatment given to EU nationals on the EHIC.  "This would
release at least 40 beds daily from Mater Dei. These patients are costing the
taxpayer no less than EUR10 million every year and they are, simultaneously,
blocking precious beds at Mater Dei.

"But I note that the public sector, for whatever reason, has not managed to
collect the fees from the relevant health insurance of these patients."   Mater
Dei autonomy In order for the running of Mater Dei Hospital to be brought on an
even keel, Dr Portelli believes that it must become an autonomous institution,
possibly through establishing a Public Private Partnership, "such as Zammit
Clapp Hospital used to be when it was run by an independent board with no
political interference and with the guiding principle that politicians should
'steer, not row'".

In addition to reducing bureaucracy by making Mater Dei an autonomous
institution, Dr Portelli also argues that another crucial step would be the
appointment of a 'Clinical Tsar' from outside the national health service who
would be answerable only to the minister responsible, with the concept of the
minister setting policy and having the tsar implementing it.

He also reiterates the common statement that more nurses and paramedical staff
needs to be employed so as to ensure a full staff complement. More full-time
doctors must also be employed, according to Dr Portelli, who points out that
"most doctors have private practice on top of their NHS job - a financial
incentive to keep long waiting lists".

Moreover, Dr Portelli advocates the setting up of a 'one-stop shop' concept at
the hospital that have "patients being seen in outpatients, tests being
performed on the same day, and an immediate decision on their future treatment
being made in terms of putting the patient on the waiting list or otherwise".

Patients, he says, should also be 'ranked', based on better-defined
clinical/social criteria, such as progression of disease, disability,
dependence, age, loss of ability to work and so on.

Such a ranking system would also see the establishment of URGS (Urgency Related
Groups) and with each group having a maximum recommended treatment time as well
as a 'priority-score' - a list by which patients receive treatment.

The Dalli report Asked about the controversial recent John Dalli report on the
workings of Mater Dei Hospital, Dr Portelli is of the opinion the "no report
should be read in isolation".

He explains how, for example, "A recent report, the European Consumer Heath
Index ECHI 2013, published about the same time as the Dalli report and which was
based on the assessment of 48 separate criteria, showed that we have slid
backwards another five points in our ranking, mainly because of our long waiting
lists and patients rights.

"We are now behind Greece and behind Cyprus as well, being placed in 26 th
position out of 35 countries - and to think that our health system once stood in
fifth position on the World Health Organisation list.

"No doubt they have taken note of our own Ombudsman's report on patients rights,
where the Ombudsman stated that consultants have a 'stranglehold' and absolute
power over the patient." He also cites a recent EU report that had found that
Malta's health service is only 38 per cent financially efficient. The John
Hopkins report, he notes, "cost us a hefty EUR1.3 million.  "The report spent
many months not seeing the light of day, lying in a drawer. Now, nearly two
years down the line, very few of the recommendations have been adopted as yet.
      "Reports often reveal what you already know, or suspect. We need to change
our attitude and stop shooting the messenger, and instead analyse what is in the
report.  We can then sit down together and see what can be implemented in the
patient's interest."   No insurance payments for traffic accident treatment Dr
Portelli also advises that, with the aim of reducing some of the burden on the
public health system, all medical expenses, including medical insurance premiums
should be made tax allowable.

He also highlights the fact that most road traffic accident victims are treated
in state hospitals - treatment that is complex and costly.  "In one year, it was
estimated that the treatment of road accident victims cost the state EUR20
million. But, by law, every motor vehicle has to have an insurance to cover
victims of traffic accidents.

"It should be the insurance companies that pay for these expenses not the
taxpayer."   A holistic approach Dr Portelli is confident that the right changes
could be made, in the sole interests of the patients, through a truly concerted
effort and by viewing the health system in a holistic fashion.

He contends, that Mater Dei Hospital should not be looked in isolation from
other parts of the wider health sector and for real change to be effected, the
health sector needs to be viewed as a whole.

"To make an analogy, if Mater Dei is the 'head' of the body, primary health care
is the 'backbone' - and the 'head' cannot function well if the 'backbone' is
weak.

"For instance, many patients go to Mater Dei Hospital when they could very well
have been treated in the primary health sector by their own GP or at the Health
Centres. This is increasing the workload on Mater Dei Hospital with the result
that there is increasing overcrowding, and the postponement of operations.

"Therefore," he says, "we have to strengthen the Primary Health service at the
same time as we implement measures at Mater Dei.

"I am convinced that to alleviate patient suffering we can do it if we are
determined, dedicated and disciplined."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1594


                    Copyright 2013 Standard Publications Ltd
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Tribune-Star (Terre Haute, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 18, 2010 Thursday

Regional Hospital CEO steps down: Announcement says resignation is ?for personal
reasons' and effective immediately

BYLINE: Sue Loughlin, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words


Feb. 18--Chris Hill has resigned as Terre Haute Regional Hospital's chief
executive officer, the hospital confirmed Wednesday.

Hill had served as CEO since November 2006.

The resignation "for personal reasons" was effective immediately, according to a
Regional news release.

Brian Bauer, currently the hospital's chief financial officer, is serving as
interim CEO.

"We want to thank Chris for his service and wish him well as he pursues other
opportunities," said Bart Colwell, chairman of the hospital's board of trustees,
in a news release. "Regional Hospital has an outstanding team of physicians,
employees and volunteers and our future is bright. Our search for a replacement
CEO will focus on finding a strong leader who will continue the hospital's
approach of providing outstanding, patient-centered care to Wabash Valley
residents."

Hill could not be reached for comment Wednesday.

According to information provided to the Tribune-Star, Hill sent an e-mail to
employees stating in part, "At this time with mixed emotion I am announcing my
resignation ... I am from Arizona and pursuing opportunities now in the
Southwest that will allow me to be close to my family. Thank you for all the
support you have given me and please continue to do all that you do to provide
extraordinary care for our patients and make Regional the great hospital it is."

In a telephone interview, Colwell said he had no comment on the reason for
Hill's resignation. "All I know is he resigned for personal reasons," he said.

Colwell also said, "Brian will do a great job as interim CEO and continue on
with the focus the hospital has had, which is patient care and safety and
providing increased levels of services to patients" and continuing community
involvement.

HCA, Regional's parent company, will conduct a search and hire a new CEO,
Colwell said. The Regional board will serve in an advisory capacity, he said.

Bauer joined Regional Hospital in May 2005. Since that time, he has served as
manager of managed care, hospital controller and interim chief financial
officer. He graduated from Butler University, where he earned a degree in
finance with an emphasis in accounting and political science.

He is a member of Union Christian Church and has traveled to Honduras as a
volunteer with Lifeline Christian Mission. He is active in several community and
political groups, according to Regional's Web site.

Regional officials had no further comment Wednesday. HCA referred comments to
Regional officials.

Sue Loughlin can be reached at (812) 231-4235 or sue.loughlin@tribstar.com

To see more of The Tribune-Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute,
Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100218-TX-Regional-Hospital-CEO-steps-down-0218

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TX


                                 Copyright 2010


                              212 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday

Nepal hospitals still treating injured from protest movement

LENGTH: 383 words


Excerpt from report by by Renu Kshetry published by Nepalese newspaper The
Himalayan Times website on 13 August

Kathmandu, 13 August: The Jana Andolan-II [People's Movement] culminated over
three-and-a-half months ago, but the suffering of the people who were injured
during the movement goes unabated. Many injured are still visiting hospitals in
the Valley. Most of the injured are from the districts whom doctors referred to
the Valley hospitals, hoping they will get better treatment here.

The Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH), Bir Hospital and the
Kathmandu Model Hospital [KMH] are still treating the people who were injured
during the movement. Every day these hospitals treat anywhere between two and 15
patients. Most of the injured hail from the far west, where the state resorted
to massive suppression, resulting in the emergence of orthopaedic, surgical and
neurological cases. The cases of psychological trauma are also on the rise.

Dr Karbir Nath Yogi, associate professor at the TUTH, said the hospital has been
witnessing a flow of such patients.

Some patients also seek free medical treatment, misusing the political
influence. It may be noted that the government had announced that the people
injured during the movement will be treated free of cost in government
hospitals.

"Sometimes it becomes very difficult to convince the people that treatment is
only for injuries sustained during the movement. They even show up for the
treatment of epilepsy, blood pressure and cancer," said Dr Yogi.

The TUTH alone faces two or three such cases a week. Other hospitals too have
been coping with similar cases.

"We don't cater to the patients, who come with the recommendation from political
parties but were not injured in course of the movement," said Dr Shambu
Upadhyaya, spokesperson for the Kathmandu Model Hospital. [passage omitted]

The TUTH treated 22 patients, who were injured in course of the movement, last
week. Altogether 600 injured people have undergone treatment at the TUTH so far.
The KMH has been witnessing a decrease in the number of injured patients over
the last three weeks - from 20 to 15 patients a day. The KMH hospital has 1,200
single entries of such injured patients. [passage omitted]

Source: The Himalayan Times website, Kathmandu, in English 13 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                           January 25, 2017 Wednesday

APA assurance to resolve AHQs hospital issues

BYLINE: Nasib Shah Shinwari

SECTION: Vol. 28 No. 25

LENGTH: 133  words


he newly appointed Assistant Political Agent (APA) of Landikotal on Tuesday paid
a visit to Agency Headquarters Hospital of Landikotal and inspected various
departments of the hospital.

Niaz Mohammad, The APA of Landikotal subdivision paid a brief visit to AHQs
hospital in Landikotal and inspected the laboratory, X-Ray and operation theater
of the hospital.

Meanwhile he also called on the medical superintendent (MS) of the hospital, Zar
Alam Shinwari and discussed various issues pertaining to local patients and
hospital.

The hospital administration informed the political administration official about
the vacant posts of various medical staff at the hospital.

The official of the political administration assured the hospital administration
for full cooperation to resolve the miseries of patients.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Trust (Abuja)

                            October 22, 2010 Friday

Yobe - of Politics And Management of Cholera Outbreak [opinion]

BYLINE: Abdullahi Bego

LENGTH: 890  words


During the last few days, there was a lot of furore from a section of the
opposition in Yobe State when the State Government decided not to accept
donations of drugs from Senator Usman Albishir for patients of the recent
cholera outbreak in Gashu'a town of Bade Local Government Area.

Although the reason for this action was explained in clear terms by the
government, those people who want to extract political capital out of the issue
continue to look the other way, making contradictory comments and statements of
suspect authenticity.

For the purpose of clarity, the Yobe State Government did not reject the
donation by Senator Albishir per se. His people were only told to follow the
right channel to make the donation; namely to follow through the Hospitals
Management Board, which is the statutory body responsible for the management of
public hospitals in the State. Through the Hospital Management Board, the
government could ensure that any drugs donated by anyone are of good quality and
appropriate for use by members of the public.

In this age when counterfeit and fake drugs and medicaments of expired value are
known to flood the Nigerian market, the government has a moral and primary
responsibility to protect the public by ensuring proper checks and control of
hospital inventories.

There is no doubt that when the Albishir people donated the drugs in Gashu'a,
they were first 'accepted' by the Chief Nursing Officer on duty. That acceptance
was qualified, however. According to reports, the donors went to Gashua with a
lot of political fanfare. Although the objective ostensibly was to assist the
sick, the associated political gimmickry gave the mission away as one calculated
solely to make political capital.

Had the hospital officials in Gashua refused the donations in the first
instance, a scene might have been created with likely political implications.
So, they went ahead and took the donation but when everything quieted down, they
called the donors and told them to channel it through the appropriate medical
authorities for the purpose of quality control.

In climes where overriding public interest is no hostage to entrenched political
interests, this would not have been an issue at all. If the officials at the
Gashua hospital wanted the donors to take certain course of action which is
legitimate and appropriate, the donors could take such a course of action while
maintaining their gaze firmly on their objective of helping the sick. But rather
than do that, they resorted to holler in the press, making comments that, even
in the gale of partisanship, are uncharitable.

But the Yobe State Government will not be distracted from its focus of providing
succour to the victims of cholera outbreak. For the record, the government
responded within the first three hours of the outbreak of cholera in Gashua town
back in July. Journalists who talked to the Emir of Bade, who played a key role
in offering support for the victims, confirmed this.

In all, 2916 cases were reported across all public hospitals in Yobe State since
the outbreak in July. Of this number, 2741 people were treated and discharged.
133 people unfortunately lost their lives while 42 cases still remained in
hospitals. Throughout this period, the Yobe State Government worked to live up
to its responsibilities - providing the drugs that were needed to treat
patients, undertaking outreach campaigns to sensitise people to complement
government efforts by improving on personal hygiene.

It was within this context that such donor agencies as the United Nations
Children's Fund, UNICEF, Doctors without Borders, PPRINN, etc stepped out to
complement the government's effort as well. Their donations, in line with best
practice, were channelled through the government's watchdog agency, the
Hospitals Management Board. And they were accepted and were since channelled to
the people in need.

It came as no surprise, however, that the Albishir people decided to get
straight to Gashua to make the donations even though they know full well that as
a public health institution, the Gashua hospital is regulated by the Hospital
Management Board, from which it takes its supplies and replenishments as well.

As we move to the future, it is important that the demands of partisanship and
political opposition are placed within the bounds of propriety and common sense
norms. For all that the opposition had said or might say; there is no denying
that Governor Ibrahim Gaidam has turned around Yobe's public health sector. One
needs only visit the State Specialist Hospital, Damaturu and other health
centres in the major towns to see the modest interventions that were made: New
hospital equipment; regularly replenished drug inventories and the women and
children who continue to receive free medical treatment.

The women and children and the aged and accident victims who benefit from these
interventions may not have access to the media of mass communication to make
their voices heard. They do not see anything political in the effort of
government; they only see a government that works for them - a governor that
works rain or shine to make life a little better for everyone.

This is the reality that no opposition attempt at politicizing healthcare
delivery issues in Yobe State can drown out.

Bego is Director of Press Affairs, Government House Damaturu

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                        May 18, 1999, Tuesday, Edition 1

MERGER MUST STOP, LOBBY GROUP URGES

BYLINE: Rita Daly

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 518 words


Women's College Hospital at risk, supporters say

 HEALTH ISSUES REPORTER

 A grassroots lobby group wants to stop the merger between Women's College and
Sunnybrook hospitals and is calling on all three political parties for support.

The Friends of Women's College, with more than 8,000 supporters, says the
amalgamation is putting women's health care at risk and wants the hospital to
regain its autonomy. The group's call came yesterday as it released a report
card on the merger, detailing a lack of progress since the hospitals were
amalgamated almost a year ago, and gave it a failing grade.

''The amalgamation . . . has been undermined by a combination of factional
governance, incompatible corporate culture and lack of strategic leadership, ''
Gail Regan, founding president of Friends, told a news conference in front of
Women's College Hospital.

''Occasional good faith efforts cannot save this amalgamation.''

A special act in June, 1998, brought together Sunnybrook, Women's College and
Orthopaedic and Arthritic hospitals as one huge institution, with all in-
patient services to be moved to the Sunnybrook site.

After a long struggle, Women's College was allowed to stay open as an ambulatory
care centre.

Both the Liberals and the New Democratic Party yesterday immediately vowed to
undo the merger if elected.

Health Minister Elizabeth Witmer issued a letter reconfirming a promise that
Women's College will be ''the guiding mind and hand'' for women's health
programs when it becomes the ambulatory care centre. Witmer is expected to meet
later this week with medical staff at the hospital to hear their concerns.

Using the format of the Harris government's new student report card, the lobby
group yesterday released its assessment showing the merger has faltered and is
in desperate need of help. They gave an A, B-, C, two Ds and 6 Rs (for
remediation) to the merger efforts so far.

The A was awarded because a majority of voting directors on the hospital's board
are women.

The failing grades include:

Lack of an agreement by April 30 of this year for Women's College Hospital to
manage and operate an ambulatory centre at the Grenville site.

No female leaders from Women's College have been named as medical chiefs for the
merged institution to date. (Seven medical chiefs have been named so far, two of
them women from other institutions.)

A women's health committee, to guarantee that women's health programs remain a
priority, has not been formed.

'Occasional good faith efforts cannot save this amalgamation'

A spokesperson for the Sunnybrook and Women's College Health Sciences Centre
said yesterday that, to the contrary, considerable progress has been made on the
merger.

The joint board was granted an extension to the end of June to get an agreement
on the ambulatory centre, and the women's health committee is finalizing its
terms of agreement, said public affairs director Sandra Cruickshanks.

Jane Pepino, chair of Women's College and a long-time Tory, said she believes
the amalgamation can still work.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              216 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday

PPMSA members stage demo against MS Civil Hospital

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 534

LENGTH: 287  words


Members of Pakistan Paramedical Staff Association (PPMSA) Sindh and PPMSA
Karachi on Tuesday staged protest demonstration outside Karachi Press Club
against Medical Superintendent (MS) Civil Hospital Karachi and demanded removal
of MS from his post.

The protesters were carrying banners and placards inscribed with different
slogans like remove MS civil hospital & save hospital, accept genuine demands of
paramedics, stop illegal allotments of offices to medical wings of political
parties and bring improvement in health delivery system in hospital.

President PPMSA Karachi Division Mohammad Nazeer Abbasi while addressing the
protesters, said health delivery system had been badly affected due to the
incompetent and inefficient MS civil hospital and a number of departments were
not functioning in hospital.  He said tenure of current MS of hospital had
proved worst for patients and staff as compared to past.

He said air conditioners of emergency were out of order, while isolation &
vascular surgery wards have been closed in healthcare, professors remain absent
from OPD duties,  administration illegally allot offices to medical wings of
political parties, MRI machines are non-functional since a year and
administration have failed to resolve the problems being faced by paramedics.

He demanded of the Sindh government, health minister, secretary health and other
high-ups to  immediately remove the MS of Sindh's largest healthcare from his
post as soon as possible and appoint competent officer  on this post in order to
improve health delivery system in hospital.

Shahid Sabri, Saeed Ahmed, Manzoor Ali, Gul Sher Jamali, Kamil Khan, Arif Ullah
Marwat, Zahid Hussain, Iqbal Hussain  were also present on this occasion.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                             June 24, 2014 Tuesday

PPMSA members stage demo against MS Civil Hospital

SECTION: Vol. VI No. 174

LENGTH: 287  words


Members of Pakistan Paramedical Staff Association (PPMSA) Sindh and PPMSA
Karachi on Tuesday staged protest demonstration outside Karachi Press Club
against Medical Superintendent (MS) Civil Hospital Karachi and demanded removal
of MS from his post.

The protesters were carrying banners and placards inscribed with different
slogans like remove MS civil hospital & save hospital, accept genuine demands of
paramedics stop illegal allotments of offices to medical wings of political
parties and bring improvement in health delivery system in hospital.

President PPMSA Karachi Division Muhammad Nazeer Abbasi while addressing the
protesters, said health delivery system had been badly affected due to the
incompetent and inefficient MS civil hospital and a number of departments were
not functioning in hospital.  He said tenure of current MS of hospital had
proved worst for patients and staff as compared to past.

He said air conditioners of emergency were out of order, while isolation &
vascular surgery wards have been closed in healthcare, professors remain absent
from OPD duties,  administration illegally allot offices to medical wings of
political parties, MRI machines are non-functional since a year and
administration have failed to resolve the problems being faced by paramedics.

He demanded of the Sindh government, health minister, secretary health and other
high-ups to  immediately remove the MS of Sindh's largest healthcare from his
post as soon as possible and appoint competent officer  on this post in order to
improve health delivery system in hospital.

Shahid Sabri, Saeed Ahmed, Manzoor Ali, Gul Sher Jamali, Kamil Khan, Arif Ullah
Marwat, Zahid Hussain, Iqbal Hussain  were also present on this occasion.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    September 19, 1997, Friday, ALL EDITIONS

Gubernatorial hopefuls introduced;
First forum for 1998 candidates draws 8 who talk about hospitals.

BYLINE: Kathey Alexander and Peter Mantius; STAFF WRITERS

SECTION: STATE NEWS; Pg. 09C

LENGTH: 459 words


Pine Mountain ---Georgia's candidates for governor honed their campaign pitches
in the first public forum of the 1998 race Thursday, lacing their positions on
crime and education with promises to protect community hospitals and rural
health care.

Most of the eight candidates for governor who showed up ---four Democrats, three
Republicans and a Libertarian ---tailored their speeches to apppeal to members
of the Georgia Alliance of Community Hospitals that sponsored the forum. But
they also laid the groundwork for issues likely to dominate next year's race for
the state's top office.

Of the major candidates, only Atlanta businessman Guy Millner, the Republican
frontrunner, was absent from the three-hour forum at Callaway Gardens that also
featured candidates for lieutenant governor.

Former Attorney General Mike Bowers, a Republican, and state Sen. Steve Langford
and Secretary of State Lewis Massey, both Democrats, used the event to call for
stronger laws requiring prisoners to serve up to 100 percent of their sentences.

Democrat David Poythress urged more funding for vocational-technical education.
Massey said he would back laws ensuring that all the proceeds from Georgia's
lottery are preserved for education.

Large, private hospitals, the new trend in Georgia, were frequently the target
of the political hopefuls, most of whom decried the efforts of some lawmakers to
deregulate the hospital industry.

With the exception of Langford, Bowers and Republican Bruce Hatfield, most of
the candidates said deregulation could threaten community and public hospitals
that provide indigent care for the poor and teaching facilities for medical
students.

Democrat Roy Barnes, a state representatiive from Mableton, said he wanted to
use part of the money Georgia expects to get from a national settlement against
tobacco companies to help rural hospitals cover the costs of patients who can't
pay.

In what may prove a harbinger of future clashes over the issue, Barnes and
Bowers took opposite sides over the recent conversion of Blue Cross-Blue Shield
from a nonprofit to a for-profit insurance company.

In response to a questioner who questioned his lack of intervention, Bowers
bristled, saying his office "had no resources to do anything."

Barnes disagreed, saying he sought legislation to give Bowers' office
responsibility to protect the public interest in the deal. "Never at one time
did the attorney general or any of his staff say, 'To do this we need some extra
money,' " Barnes said.

Also participating in the forum was Republican Nancy Schaefer, a conservative
activist, who called for a property tax freeze.

Libertarian Jack Cashin urged dissatisfied voters to look beyond Democrats and
Republicans.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colleagues: Georgia state Sens. Floyd L. Griffin (D-Milledgeville)
(left)
and Chuck Clay (R-Marietta) talk in the lobby during the Georgia Alliance
 of Community Hospitals meeting Thursday. / ROBIN TRIMARCHI / Associated
 Press

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


                              219 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 9, 1991, Wednesday

London hospital opt-outs shelved

BYLINE: By JACK O'SULLIVAN

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 183 words


PLANS to allow four teaching hospitals in London to opt out of health authority
control from next April have been shelved in the face of mounting controversy
over the Government's health service changes, writes Jack O'Sullivan.

William Waldegrave, Secretary of State for Health, will announce tomorrow at the
Conservative Party conference in Blackpool that applications for trust status
from St Mary's Hospital in Paddington, King's College Hospital, St Bartholomew's
and St Thomas's are to be put on ice until a special inquiry into London's
health services reports after the general election.

The move will be seen as a climbdown by the Government from its enthusiastic
support of self-governing trusts for teaching hospitals.

The financial problems of Guy's Hospital in central London, the flagship trust,
emerged within three weeks of its establishment as an opted-out trust, last
April. Job cuts had to be announced after a deficit of pounds 800,000 emerged
within the first few months.

The experience has clearly warned the Government off creating further trusts in
the capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                              220 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                     September 2, 2001 Sunday Final Edition

Hospital summit to be held after ACT election;
Health minister branded event a political forum

BYLINE: Georgia Curry

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 287 words


A SUMMIT on Canberra Hospital's staffing crisis will now be held after the ACT
Government election.

The summit, due to have been held yesterday, was cancelled after Health Minister
Michael Moore directed senior bureaucrats to take no part in it because he said
it was a political forum.

However, a pre-election debate on the territory's health industry has been set
for October 4 when both parties will outline their approach to health issues.

Australian Medical Association ACT president Dr Ian Pryor has obtained a
commitment from both parties to hold the summit in early November.

'It's not something we can afford to delay,' he said.

A spokesman for Chief Minister Gary Humphries said he had total support for the
summit and wanted it to become an annual event.

The Labor Party had already pledged to hold a summit on Canberra's health system
immediately if it wins the upcoming election.

Others invited to the summit include the hospital board, nursing staff, doctors,
indigenous health representatives and the Consumers Health Forum.

The summit, which will address the Canberra Hospital crisis, will also provide
key information on the hospital's financing, including a report which Dr Pryor
said had been 'held under wraps'.

'It's all about the comparative costings of Canberra Hospital versus NSW and
Victoria hospitals,' he said. 'Figures produced for Canberra Hospital make it
look like an expensive hospital but we now know that we're not over-paying for
our hospital services.'

Canberra Hospital chief executive officer Ted Rayment said the report showed
that the hospital was not counting episodes of care in the same way as other
hospitals, 'in fact we're under-counting them'.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 The Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty
                                    Limited


                              221 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 15, 2003, Tuesday

SCOTTISH ELECTION 2003: THE WAITING IS OVER.. YOUR TIME IS UP JACK;
 NATS ATTACK MCCONNELL OVER HOSPITAL LISTS

BYLINE: MARK SMITH SCOTTISH POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 514 words

HIGHLIGHT: TOUGH: Swinney unveils the new advertising campaign which attacks the
First Minister


JOHN Swinney claimed yesterday that kids are waiting three weeks longer for
hospital treatment than they did three years ago.

The Nats leader highlighted figures from Glasgow's Yorkhill Hospital that showed
the average waiting time has risen to 126 days from 103 days in 1999.

Swinney was speaking as he unveiled the SNP's latest election poster, which
shows a ringing alarm clock with Jack McConnell's face on it.

He said: "Sick kids are waiting more than three weeks longer for treatment at
Yorkhill than when Labour came to power in 1999.

"My message to Jack McConnell and his Labour Party is simple. Time's up."

He added: "They promised to reduce waiting lists by 10,000. Instead they went up
by 10,000.

"They promised to reduce waiting times. Instead, in the case of Yorkhill - a
hospital that treats some of the sickest children in all of Scotland - the
waiting time has risen by three weeks."

Labour hit back at the SNP claims, with health minister Malcolm Chisholm
claiming that waiting times were coming down. He said: "Everyone agrees that
waiting times for some people are too high.

"But the issue is which party is more likely to cut them.

"The SNP seem to be pretending now that there would be no waiting times and no
waiting lists in a separate Scotland.

"The reality is that Scots would wait longer as resources were diverted away
from Scotland's Health Service to pay for a hugely expensive divorce."

The SNP's new poster also re-ignited the bitter row over the SNP's election
tactics.

It came a day before the Nats "dying man" election broadcast.

The emotive film, to be broadcast tonight, shows a pensioner dying as he waits
for hospital treatment.

It has already been attacked as "distasteful" and "crossing a line of basic
decency" by other parties.

And it is the latest in a series of highly-personal poster attacks on McConnell.

Since the start of the year, the First Minister has been portrayed as a
cigarette being stubbed out in an ashtray and as a crook in a police mugshot.

Yesterday Swinney defended the negative campaign tactics as the best way to hold
up Labour's record.

And he backed the controversial broadcast.

He said: "People who wait too long have the risk of their condition
deteriorating and as a result of that they may die.

"Of course people die on waiting lists. That's why we have to reduce waiting
times drastically."

An SNP candidate standing for a Glasgow seat in the Scottish Parliament has been
accused of breaking election rules.

Voters in Pollok have received leaflets from nationalist candidate Kenneth
Gibson on Scottish Parliament notepaper.

But politicians bidding to return to Parliament are no longer members and are
not allowed to use the Parliament's crested paper for electioneering purposes.

Pollok is being contested by three former MSPs - Johann Lamont, Mr Gibson and
the SSP's Tommy Sheridan.

Ms Lamont said: "There are very strict guidelines which the nationalists are
ignoring."

Mr Gibson said: "I think this is a bit sad and petty."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.


                              222 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 2:58 PM GMT

Rhodri Morgan: 'This early electioneering is like Christmas shopping in
January... and there's 17 more weeks of it';
Columnist Rhodri Morgan on the Welsh NHS

BYLINE: By Rhodri Morgan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 863 words


The public gets mightily cheesed off by retailers trying their best to get us
into Christmas spending spree mood in late September.

Well now we are in the same weird phase of prematurity over the election on May
7 - that little we know - by the cycle of claim and counter-claim kicking off in
early January.

Do we really want 17 weeks of this? Of course, if an event overtakes the
schedules of the party spin doctors, then there's nothing anybody can do.'It's a
bit rich for David Cameron to complain about the NHS being used as a political
football'

If the A&E departments of hospitals are overflowing and it's getting difficult
to get prompt appointments with the GP, then it puts the 'State of the NHS' on
the front pages of the newspapers right now, not in the last three weeks of
April.

I doubt that the Sun really wanted to print that 'THIRD WORLD A&E' headline on
the front page complete with picture of the emergency A&E tent in the car park.

Newspaper publishing priorities have to take precedence over any political
loyalties.

Given what David Cameron said at the Welsh Tory Party Conference last year about
Offa's Dyke being the line between life and death, I wondered whether he was in
order to complain that Ed Miliband was turning the state of the NHS into a '
political football'. He can't have it both ways.

Once the level of demand on NHS capacity settles down again after the 'two weeks
off over Xmas' time-out, things could look very different by April.

In which case David Cameron will then be all too keen to use the NHS as a
political football.A private firm's failure to run an English hospital is the
week's big story

Perhaps this week's most significant health event long-term, is the handing back
to the NHS of the Circle private contract to run Hinchingbrooke Hospital north
of Cambridge.

Circle say they are making big losses and that entitles them to cancel the
contract.

It reminds me of National Express handing back the contract to run the Great
Eastern Main Line franchise from London to Newcastle and Edinburgh from Kings
Cross.

Since then, that contract has been run very successfully as a nationalised
industry by the Department of Transport.

Of course, the original idea for bringing in a private company to run an NHS
hospital started before the 2010 election.

So there are some New Labour fingerprints on this as well - Conservative
bootprints and New Labour fingerprints.

But Circle's failure to make a go of it shows that private companies should
perhaps be used as a source of ideas on how to improve the efficiency of
hospitals, not running them.Why hospital hairnets were once a political hot
topic

To go back to the 'political football' issue, in the run-up to the 1997
election, all of us Labour Shadow Ministers were asked by the Mirror -
presumably with a nudge from Tony Blair - to find NHS-related stories that
fitted the agenda of 'NHS under threat if the Tories re-elected'.

We were all told that this was the most important thing we could do in that
final week.

Not that it helped me get a job from the said Mr Blair, but I was the most
successful.

I managed to find two. One was a very sad story about a constituent of mine who
had been dropped off for admission at Llandough Hospital.

Somehow he'd not been picked up by the system, had wandered around the hospital
for a week and then sadly died.

The other story was about the brand-new Barry hospital intended to save the seat
of Tory MP Walter Sweeney.

Tiles kept falling off the roof endangering staff and patients.

So the hospital had put a giant sort of hair net over the new roof.

It became known as the Nora Batty among the staff, after the character in the
Last of the Summer Wine.

Strangely, the Mirror changed it from Nora Batty Hospital to Ena Sharples
Hospital after that other wondrous North Country battleaxe played by Violet
Carson in Coronation Street.Rhys Priestland has no shortage of guts

Related: Rhys Priestland confirms he is leaving Scarlets for Bath and admits: 'I
need a new challenge'

It takes guts to sign a contract to go Bath as Rhys Priestland has done, to play
at 10, when the existing first choice 10 is George Ford, not just England's
first choice but the son of Bath's head coach Mike Ford as well!

Rhys' form recently has been superb.

Perhaps a weight has been lifted off his shoulders by the direction the contract
negotiations were taking.

I wouldn't want to bet against Rhys displacing Ford as first choice, as Owen
Williams did with Toby Flood at Leicester.

Come to think of it, if English number one, George Ford was Welsh, I'm not sure
where he would fit in the outside-half rankings.

Certainly behind Dan Biggar and Owen Williams and in the mix after that with
Priestland, Hook and maybe Anscombe.

I hope that doesn't come back to bite me on Friday night, February 5, when the
Six Nations explodes into action at the Millennium Stadium!

I watched a fair bit of Bath in the Aviva Premiership over the holidays from my
sickbed.

Ford's got good acceleration, can make a break but gives away almost as many
tries as he creates with misplaced floated passes.

I'd definitely rather be in Warren Gatland's shoes than Stuart Lancaster's, when
it comes to selecting outside halves.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       April 26, 2015 Sunday 9:38 AM GMT

Moors Murderer Ian Brady's twisted letters from psychiatric hospital bed show
warped mind of child killer;
GLASGOW-born child killer Brady has been held at Ashworth high security
psychiatric hospital in Liverpool since 1985 where he spends most of his time
slumped in front of the TV spouting his bigoted views.

BYLINE: By Tom Hendry

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 1117 words


TWISTED Moors Murderer Ian Brady has sent a series of racist and sick letters
from his psychiatric hospital bed which offer a frightening insight into his
warped mind.

The Glasgow-born child killer, now 77, has been held at Ashworth high security
psychiatric hospital in Liverpool since 1985.

Barely able to stand, Brady spends most of his time slumped in front of the TV
spouting his bigoted views.

And the shuffling 77-year-old - who can only get around with a Zimmer frame -
has become obsessed with the General Election and is backing Nigel Farage's Ukip
to "decimate" the main parties' votes.

In one letter, Brady apologises for his "bedridden handwriting" before
­launching into a tirade about what he watches on the telly.

Brady savages both serious and ­satirical political TV programmes, branding
Question Time "for the dumb" with "the same old party hacks" handpicked for
audiences he describes as "liquorice allsorts".

The killer also labels host David Dimbleby "establishment dumpling".

He says Have I Got News For You is now "innocuous light comedy" while Mock the
Week is "going similarly bland" since controversial panellist Frankie Boyle
left.

Brady also says he refuses to watch popular shows such as Coronation Street or
EastEnders stating: "I don't watch soap operas, only the dotty do."

He was jailed for life in 1966 along with girlfriend Myra Hindley for abducting,
abusing, torturing and killing five youngsters in Manchester before burying them
on nearby Saddleworth Moor.

He has been held at Ashworth high security psychiatric hospital in Liverpool
since 1985. Hindley died in 2002.

In his own political "manifesto" the demented killer says he hopes Ukip
"decimates" the Conservative and Labour vote - while he wants the SNP to do the
same in Scotland.

With the General Election ­approaching he offers his warped and racist political
views in outbursts from his hospital bed.

In an outrageous attack on Britain's politicians he claims they are all corrupt
and motivated by personal greed.

He states voters must choose between a coalition of "public school millionaires"
or "a refugee, privileged German Jew" - clearly an offensive and inaccurate
reference to Labour leader Ed Miliband whose Belgian-born dad fled the Nazis.

Brady also writes that the "political vermin of today, aren't worth even
­assassination, all being Tory clerks/lackeys".

Brady lashes out at all the main political parties, branding Margaret Thatcher
and Tony Blair "war criminals".

He also accuses Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg of being willing to form a coalition
with anyone in order to retain his public image of "second hand power and
pathetic grandiosity".

Ahead of next month's polls he also claims that after "half-a-­century's
­imprisonment", he believes most ­professional criminals are Tory voters.

He dismisses David Cameron's "disgust" over the possibility of prisoners getting
the vote stating he "couldn't care less about voting", while describing the
Prime Minister's views as "the usual mob-pleasing PR drivel expected from such
bovines".

Recent reports suggest that Brady, mostly confined to bed ­following a fall, is
now close to death.

The killer is being force-fed to keep him alive after losing a legal challenge
to be moved to a normal jail where he claims he would have the right to take his
own life.

Brady starts his letter by comparing today's politicians to the only "truly
democratic and altruistic people's government ever elected", Labour in 1945.

He claims Mrs Thatcher "heralded the end of the traditional indigenous UK
working classes" and "serial war criminal" Tony Blair hastened the ­decline.

In a racist diatribe he ­continues: "Only ethnic majorities are considered
today, being the sub continental slave labour reservoir that has marginalised
the indigenous UK working class to irrelevance and decadence."

Laying into Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg, crazed Brady claims he epitomises today's
politicians, "crystallising the bankruptcy and mongrelisation prevalent,
throughout which the media sanitize, pervert and dumb down". Brady claims he
stopped reading newspapers in 1998 and now gets his information from Al Jazeera.

In an attack on the media and BBC he rants: "The corporate controlled (including
the BBC) lower middle class, collusive, servile media generate a false
appearance of democracy and free speech, in a now spineless population
constantly asking, 'am I allowed to say (this and that)?'"

And offering his views on his current accommodation he said Ashworth was a
"microcosm of this applied ignorance, institutionalised greed and regressive
suppression, of course, reflecting extent [sic] establishment values and PC
blackmail".

Brady and Hindley were jailed for life for the torture and murders of Lesley Ann
Downey, 10, John Kilbride, 12, and 17-year-old Edward Evans.

Years later while in prison they also confessed to the murders of Keith Bennett,
12, and 16-year-old Pauline Read. After killing their victims the couple buried
their bodies on Saddleworth Moor.

In another letter earlier this year Brady - who has never shown any remorse for
his crimes - claimed he didn't have long to live.

He said he wished he had died "decades ago" while insisting he is not insane and
should be allowed to starve himself to death.

He lost his last appeal to be transferred to a regular jail in June 2013.

During that appeal, Brady's hunger strike was exposed as a farce by a nurse who
revealed he regularly ate toast and soup.

The killer claims he stopped eating in 1999 but charge nurse Mark Sheppard told
the mental health tribunal that staff took him flasks of boiling water so he
could make himself soup.

In the earlier letter, Brady moaned that he was "still bedridden and worsening"
after breaking his hip and arm in a fall.

Continuing to insist he is not insane he complained he was still being force-fed
against his will and should be transferred to jail where he could starve
himself.

He wrote: "The cell block is described as a 'discharge ward'. I've been sitting
here 30 years ... and there's no turnaround of inmates unless in a coffin.

"So it's more accurately a blocked sewer pipe."

He added: "Had I divined the future of spending half a century in prison, and
the final 15 years being force fed by nasal tube in an unmonitored zoological
cesspit of regression, I would've exited decades ago."

In September last year, Alan Bennett, the brother of missing 12-year-old Keith,
made a desperate plea for Brady to reveal where he is buried.

With Brady's health deteriorating Alan, 58, has spent years trying to persuade
the killer to help police find his brother's grave.

He said: "I have corresponded with Brady and requested visits. He has ignored
those requests but I am always willing to meet him."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday

KP PA Speaker visits Bannu: 'situation not conducive for political
point-scoring'

SECTION: Vol. L No. 192

LENGTH: 307  words


Speaker of KP Assembly Asad Qaiser has said the present situation is not
suitable for political point scoring, but there is dire need of unity and
solidarity. He said this while addressing a grand meeting of the district
presidents and general secretaries of different political parties in Jirga Hall,
Bannu on Friday. Besides, Provincial Minister Mushtaq Ghani and MPA
Fakhar-e-Azam, a large number of important figures and senior government
officials were also present on the occasion.

The Speaker said the problem of IDPs is not specific for any particular party
rather it is the problem of the whole nation. He said an amount of Rs 5 million
have been released for District Headquarters Hospital (DHQ) Bannu and Women and
Children Hospital and another amount of Rs 2.5 million for Khalifa Gul Nawaz
Hospital.

He said the government has stored a huge quantity of medicines for 182,000
patients in Bannu and till now over 90,000 patients have been provided free
medicines. He said all hospitals of the district are required to work
consecutively three shifts and daily report of that would be dispatched to
Secretary Health.

The speaker said a committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of
deputy commissioner Bannu while the members are included medical superintendent
(MS), concerned MPAs, PPHI and Imran Khan Foundation. The committee, he said is
empowered to purchase anything including medicines, beds, quilts for hospitals,
fans and air-conditioners. He said that the provincial government had provided
two buses for Baka Khel IDPs camp with immediate effect.

He urged the parents and volunteers for paying special concentration on
administering polio drops to the children of IDPs. He said that the shifting of
378 tube-wells of Bannu on solar power will be completed within a period of one
week while 37 more would be repaired.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 July 10, 2016

The A&E hitlist: Trauma care to be axed from nine hospitals

BYLINE: Susan Mitchell

LENGTH: 665 words



HIGHLIGHT: Doctors say number of A&Es must be reduced; Proposal will trigger
huge political backlash


Nine hospitals around the country face having emergency trauma services
permanently axed, under new plans being drawn up for the health service.

This means that they would no longer treat patients who have been in car crashes
or had serious falls and have head injuries, broken limbs and major wounds.

The hospitals that have been earmarked are Cavan Hospital, Naas Hospital
(Kildare), Portiuncula Hospital (Galway), Mullingar Hospital (Westmeath), St
Luke's Hospital (Kilkenny), Wexford Hospital, South Tipperary Hospital, Mercy
University Hospital (Cork) and Portlaoise Hospital (Laois).

http://www.businesspost.ie/situation-critical-in-irelands-emergency-departments/

The proposal to stop emergency departments at nine hospitals from taking these
'trauma' patients will be made in a report from the Trauma Steering Group that
is charged with developing a policy for a national trauma network.

The move would see patients treated in bigger and better-equipped emergency
departments, but could also entail longer journeys for many injured patients.

There is strong clinical evidence to support the centralisation of trauma care.

Under the new plan, it is intended that the potentially affected hospitals will
instead concentrate on selected medical care and increase the amount of planned
elective surgery they do.

It is likely that minor injuries - cuts and sprains - will still be cared for at
these hospitals.

While ambulance bypass protocols for trauma patients are already in place at a
number of these hospitals, many patients are driven directly to these emergency
departments by friends or relatives.

Some of these hospitals accept trauma patients from ambulances, and often
stabilise them before transferring them to bigger emergency departments.

The proposal to put an end to trauma care at these hospitals will feed into
broader plans to reduce the number of emergency departments throughout the
country.

"Ultimately, I can see some of these becoming minor injuries units," said one
senior health source.

Any attempt to change the designation of 24/7 emergency departments would cause
a major political backlash.

But some of the 'emergency departments' at these hospitals do not treat acute
strokes and cannot provide optimal treatment to patients who have had heart
attacks.

The proposal to axe trauma services is  politically sensitive, as it will be
painted as a 'downgrading' of these local hospitals.

Efforts to remove services from some emergency departments or replace them with
minor injuries clinics, in areas such as Roscommon, elicited huge public and
political protest.

Many clinicians are concerned that patients are presenting at emergency
departments throughout the country that do not have the equipment or staff to
give them the interventions they need.

The Irish Association for Emergency Medicine (IAEM), which represents doctors on
the frontline, has repeatedly said there are too many hospital emergency
departments and that it was not possible to run them all safely and adequately.

The IAEM has criticised the decision to keep 29 emergency departments open,
saying political self-interest was trumping concerns for patient safety.
Healthcare regulator Hiqa has also expressed concern.

The Dublin Midlands Hospitals Group recently submitted a plan to the Department
of Health that proposes replacing the emergency department at Portlaoise
Hospital with a minor injuries unit.

Similar plans are being advanced elsewhere.

Portlaoise Hospital sources said the plan for that hospital also proposes
removing maternity care and paediatric services from Portlaoise Hospital.

Former Minister for Health Leo Varadkar established a steering group on a Trauma
Network for Ireland.

Chaired by Professor Eilis McGovern, it is expected to complete its work in the
third quarter of 2016, the Department of Health said.

Its recommendations will be submitted to Minister for Health Simon Harris for
consideration, in advance of submission to government.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                     April 15, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

PAKISTAN: Politically motivated bombing kills six at cancer clinic: Feuding
among politicians blamed for explosion

BYLINE: JOHN BURNS; THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C12

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, India


A bomb exploded in Pakistan's only cancer hospital on Sunday, killing at least
six people and injuring more than 30.

The bomb detonated in the city of Lahore at the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Centre, opened 16 months ago and dedicated to the memory of the mother of
Pakistan's former cricket captain, Imran Khan. Khan, 43, has said in recent days
that he is on the verge of starting a political movement to topple Prime
Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was a fellow student with Khan at Oxford University
20 years ago.

The blast occurred shortly after noon on Sunday, a normal working day in
Pakistan, when about 150 patients and relatives were gathered at the sprawling
hospital complex. A correspondent for the BBC who reached the scene said the
explosion left dead and wounded lying in pools of blood, with one wall of the
hospital blown away.

Hospital officials said that the dead included two children who were patients
and that 10 of the injured were in critical condition.

The incident came amid intensifying political violence in Pakistan. Khan, who
gained widespread popularity among Pakistan's 130 million people when his team
won cricket's world championship for the first time in 1992, has been sharply
critical of the country's feuding political class, which he has described as "a
culture of corruption and injustice."

Many of his criticisms have been aimed particularly at Prime Minister Bhutto,
whom Khan has accused of leading a government obsessed with political vendettas
and self-enrichment.

Bhutto has responded by targeting Khan with income tax investigations, a ban on
fund-raising events for the cancer hospital in schools and other government-run
institutions, and a blackout on reports about the hospital on the state-run
broadcasting network.

After the explosion on Sunday, the 42-year-old Bhutto made her first visit to
the hospital, calling the blast "a deplorable attack" and hinting that it might
have been the work of loyalists of Pakistan's main opposition leader, Nawaz
Sharif. Sharif, who has tried and failed to recruit Khan as an ally, denied the
allegation.

Khan, who reached the hospital from his home in Lahore shortly after the attack,
declined to say who he thought might have set the bomb. But he said the blast
would not deter him from his political plans. "I want to tell those who want to
scare me that neither will I be scared, nor will I turn back."

Khan has stirred controversy in Pakistan for what his critics call hypocrisy. He
has described the country's political elite as "brown Sahibs" -- meaning that
their attitudes and lifestyles, in a Muslim country, mimick those of the British
rulers of colonial India. Opponents responded that Khan was one of the most
photographed "playboys" of London's West End.

Last summer, Khan stunned many Pakistanis by marrying Jemima Goldsmith, now 22,
who is the daughter of James Goldsmith, an Anglo-French business tycoon. After
Muslim ceremonies in Paris and a civil wedding in London, Mrs. Khan, who adopted
the Muslim name Haiqa and converted to Islam, made a home with Khan in Lahore.

But criticism of Khan seems to have made little impact. The $ 22 million needed
to build the cancer hospital was raised in part on a tour in which Khan walked
through Pakistan's slums and villages, accepting donations of a few rupees.

When Khan showed a visitor around the hospital two weeks ago, patients and
relatives, some of whom had traveled hundreds of miles to the hospital, greeted
him with cries of "Long Live the Great Khan!" A 28-year-old woman named Farzana,
mother of a five-year-old boy undergoing chemotherapy, said she was illiterate
and had never voted, but would if Khan were a candidate. "He might be our next
prime minister," she said. "We all adore him."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LENGTH: 632 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: -- /Reuter Photo/ Innocent Victims: Explosion left dead
and wounded cancer patients scattered about wreckage in hospital

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                October 9, 2016

Government accused of 'cherry picking' advice on hospitals

BYLINE: Susan Mitchell

LENGTH: 391 words



HIGHLIGHT: Claims of 'gross political interference' in health policy decisions


The most senior medic in the south of the country has accused the government of
"cherry-picking" the clinical advice it uses.

Dr Rob Landers, chief clinical director of the South Southwest Hospital group
that has nine hospitals, said the government was "ignoring clinical advice for
political expediency" in certain parts of the country.

Landers said there appeared to be "gross political interference" that resulted
in the government ignoring advice from health regulator Hiqa about Portlaoise
Hospital.

He said it was instructive to contrast this with the government's position on
University Hospital Waterford (UHW).

Minister for Health Simon Harris and Taoiseach Enda Kenny have said they will
stand by the recommendation of an independent expert, Dr Niall Herity, about
cardiac services at Waterford.

Herity advised against providing a second cath lab - a facility designed to
perform a range of diagnostic and therapeutic invasive cardiac procedures - at
UHW. Clinicians in Waterford have strongly disputed the findings of that report.

Landers said Hiqa had concluded that the 24-7 emergency department in Portlaoise
was unsafe and unsustainable, yet it remains open.

Portlaoise Hospital was also one of ten hospitals chosen by the HSE to have
their 24/7 emergency departments downgraded in 2011.

Health sources said there was significant political interference by the last
government, with the HSE forced to remove the hospital from the list.

The hospital is situated in the constituency of Minister for Foreign Affairs
Charlie Flanagan.

Last May, the Dublin Midlands Hospital Groups submitted a plan to the Department
of Health that proposed replacing the emergency department at Portlaoise
Hospital with a minor injuries unit.

The plan for the hospital also proposed removing maternity care and paediatric
services from Portlaoise Hospital.

Minister for Health Simon Harris did not respond to a question about the status
of that report last week.

Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin met with consultants at UHW last Monday.

Consultant cardiologist Dr Patrick Owens said doctors had presented Martin with
the difficulties they face in providing care for their patients.

Owens said Martin had given them a commitment of a second cath lab. He claimed
the Herity Report was "poorly conceived" and heavily influenced by the
Department of Health.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                            October 30, 2015 Friday

Bilawal's guards violate hospital's code of conduct

BYLINE: Noor Aftab

SECTION: Vol. 25 No. 244

LENGTH: 486  words


Making the mockery of code of conduct for the visitors, some thirty private
security guards rushed into the wards and other departments of Lady Reading
Hospital (Peshawar) when Pakistan People's Party (PPP) Chairman Bilawal Bhutto
Zardari arrived in the facility to inquire after the quake-hit people, the
sources told 'The News' here on Thursday.

Though Lady Reading Hospital has effective security arrangements within the
premises but the security guards of Bilawal Bhutto Zardari themselves took
control of the wards that were to be visited by the PPP chairman, the sources
said.

The sources said the arrival of VIP figures at Lady Reading Hospital after
October 26 earthquake had become a matter of grave concern for the
administration as well as attendants because they were not allowed to move into
certain areas that were cordoned off by the security apparatus.

It is pertinent to mention here that those dignitaries who have so far visited
Lady Reading Hospital after October 26 earthquake included Pakistan
Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan, his wife Reham Khan, KP Chief
Minister Pervaiz Khattak, Speaker KP Assembly Asad Qaiser and others.

A senior official of Lady Reading Hospital confided to this correspondent that
it was really awkward to see that political figures visited wards with large
groups of people and most of whom started taking photographs of patients and
their leaders.

It is quite unethical to come and start taking photographs and selfies without
giving any serious thought to decorum of the hospital. The hospital
administration even gives them briefing in the wards despite the fact that all
details and updates about injured people are provided through media and
websites, he said.

When contacted, KP Health Minister Shahram Khan Tarakai told The News when
private security guards of the PPP chairman entered into the wards, the
administration never stopped them to avoid any unwanted situation. There were
some thirty private security guards who accompanied Bilawal Bhutto Zardari
during his visit to Lady Reading Hospital. It is beyond doubt that there are
security threats to the political figures in the country but it is not ethical
to bring private guards into the wards of the hospitals, he said.

Shahram Khan said there was a code of conduct in the hospital but unfortunately
the political elites never followed it, adding, If the hospital administration
stops the security guards of the political elites, they can start leveling
allegations against the KP government.

To a question, he said PTI Chairman Imran Khan and his wife Reham Khan also
separately visited the hospital but the hospital administration itself made
arrangements for their security.

To another question, he said the politicians and other people who wanted to
visit Lady Reading Hospital were requested to follow the code of conduct to
ensure no problem was created for the patients and the staff members.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 25, 1995 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Political pulse throbs to health's heartbeat

BYLINE: Shane Green

SECTION: NEWS; News Extra; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1179 words


The politics of health in Victoria will have a major impact on the next state
election, writes state political editor Shane Green.

The Liberal MP Geoff Leigh has experienced what most of his colleagues in
marginal seats only fear: the threat of a hospital closure in his electorate.

In December, a leaked Government working paper designated two hospitals in his
area for closure. Mordialloc Hospital fell right within his seat; Sandringham
Hospital was neighboring.

Mr Leigh went into overdrive. Denials were secured from Spring Street,
culminating in the Health Minister, Mrs Tehan, visiting staff at Mordialloc
Hospital to assure them it would not be closing. The local MP even went to the
Press Council to complain that this newspaper had reported the document in the
first place.

Mr Leigh's sensitivity was understandable. Apart from the local member's
instinctive defence of his own patch, the closures would have had a dramatic
impact on his chances of retaining Mordialloc, even with the buffer of a 7.1 per
cent margin.

Despite the local member's frenzy, it became clear this week that December
guarantees on hospitals mean nothing in March, as Mrs Tehan confirmed before a
parliamentary committee.

Four weeks after Mr Leigh received the guarantee, the Premier, Mr Kennett,
announced the establishment of a metropolitan hospital review board that would
examine the future of Melbourne's 27 public hospitals, Mordialloc and
Sandringham included.

The buzz word surrounding the review is "rationalisation". It is too soon to say
whether this will mean hospital closures, but it will mean aggregation of
hospital managements, with clusters of hospitals coming under new boards. The
end result could well be rationalisation of services.

Mr Leigh remains philosophical. "I'll wait and look with interest to what the
board does," he says. Predictably, he maintains that he would still hang on to
the seat should cutbacks or closures result, but acknowledges: "Obviously, it
would stir up a great deal of community passion, which you wouldn't be surprised
at."

The Labor Party may have declared the next election a referendum on
privatisation, but the politics of health in Victoria are likely to have just as
big an impact if not greater on the outcome.

The review of the system was part of a New Year circuit-breaker by the
Government, suffering damage because of the sustained public airing of the
crisis emerging in the public hospital system.

The review has also had a remarkable effect on the profile of health as an
issue. The so-called crisis in the system that led to Mr Kennett's intervention
has this year failed to surface in any significant way.

One explanation is that chief executives are too busy working on the review, and
reluctant to speak out because their own futures are on the line. Doctors,
meanwhile, do not want to jeopardise the future of individual hospitals. As a
circuit-breaker, the effect has been dramatic. But what of the review and its
effect on the next election?

The political significance of the review has been largely overshadowed by the
controversy over the alleged conflict of interest of the review board's head, Ms
Elizabeth Proust. But as that issue subsided, the focus has now shifted to the
sharp end of what the review is all about.

After a two-year holiday when they enjoyed simply being there, the huge
Government back bench has now realised the free ride is over, and they will have
to face re-election. The final report of the hospital review board comes down in
December; the election must be held by the following October.

Apart from the timing, there are two key elements that give the review a high
political risk. The Government has committed itself to accepting the
recommendations of the board and implement them. Second, neither the Government
nor the Health Department will be making a submission to the board.

Surprisingly, the possible outcomes do not have most MPs in marginal seats
breaking out in a cold sweat. Both publicly and privately, the back bench
appears calm about the outcome of the review, in comparison to the agitation it
experienced in the second half of last year as the Government was pummelled over
health.

Mr Peter McLellan holds his seat of Frankston East for the Liberals by 0.2 per
cent the state's most marginal coalition seat. His electorate also borders the
Mt Eliza Centre. Mr McLellan, however, remains unperturbed by the review.

"I'm not really concerned about the political aspects of it," Mr McLellan says.
"In the community interest, it has to be done. . ."

Yet a major change to the services of the public hospital abutting Mr McLellan's
electorate would almost certainly mean political death for the sitting member.

In the former ALP seat of Essendon, Liberal Mr Ian Davis has a margin of only
1.3 per cent, and the future of the Essendon Hospital, a campus of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital, is already an issue.

The Labor candidate for the seat, Ms Judy Maddigan, has received local press
coverage warning that the hospital's future was uncertain.

Mr Davis, in turn, denied the allegation, and claimed that he had had an
assurance from Mrs Tehan that there was no plan to close the hospital.

Mr Davis says he would be surprised if anything happened to the Essendon
Hospital, given the resources put into it.

Ms Maddigan believes the hospital's future will be one of the key local issues
that will help take her over the line. "The Essendon Hospital is close to the
hearts of the people of Essendon, because over the years, back as far as 1945,
money was raised by the local community for the setting up of a community
hospital," she says.

Heading east, the picture is similar. If, for example, services at Dandenong
Hospital were cut back, this could have a huge impact on surrounding seats.
Dandenong North is Labor's most marginal seat, at 0.1 per cent, but a
significant change to services could take it back to the safe 8.5 per cent
margin Labor enjoyed before the last state poll.

Importantly, most of the main hospitals are in the inner city, and one of the
primary reasons behind the review is to redress the imbalance between their
location and where people live. In the safe Labor seats of Melbourne and
Richmond, there are eight major hospitals.

What impact would the closure of an inner-city hospital have?

Clearly, it would depend on which hospital. Many of the hospitals offering
specialist services, such as the Royal Women's Hospital, serve a wide area, and
any cutback in the services provided could produce a backlash. Yet we have had
the experience of the closure of an inner-city hospital with the Labor
Government's decision to close Prince Henry's Hospital with negligible electoral
impact.

Government MPs in marginal seats may take some comfort from the fact that the
local government review was expected to fire a revolt in the suburbs. The end
result has been a easy transition, with minimal protest. Health is different.
There is a strong sense of community ownership of suburban public hospitals, and
it is inevitable that reductions in services or closures will mean votes lost.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map Beds and Seats: The Liberal Dilemma

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1995 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            February 14, 2016 Sunday

Team Sunderbani raises finger over doctor-MR, Patwari-Land mafia nexus

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: Sunderbani


Sunderbani, Feb. 14 -- Team Sunderbani - a body comprising prominent figures
including Doctors, Engineers, Teachers and Social activists of Tehsil Sunderbani
today convened its second meeting under the supervision of its coordinator Arun
Kumar Sharma at Dak Bungalow here.

On the occasion, all the participants held deliberations on various issues
affecting adversely to the common masses in general and public exchequer in
particular. Arun Kumar Sharma while speaking on the occasion lamented the role
of political representatives of various political parties for their failure in
providing basic facilities to the common masses even after the 68 years of
independence of India.

Arun Kumar Sharma expressed serious concerned over deteriorating condition of
the health and life care facilities in the sub-district hospital Sunderbani. He
alleged that the health staff in the hospital in connivance with the medical
representatives (MRs) of the medicine companies are looting the patients and
minting money at the cost of human lives.

There are number of prescribed drugs that are available in the hospital but
owing to the strong nexus between the doctors and medical practitioners the
innocent patients are being forced to purchase medicines from outside the
hospitals, Sharma said adding that without any mention of 'Salt' in the
medicinal drug, doctors in the sub-district hospital are openly endorsing and
prescribing the patients to purchase medicines of the particular companies and
brands which are much costlier to those available in the hospital.

While lamenting the role of political leadership of Sunderbani-Nowshera Assembly
segment, Sharma said that Tehsil Sunderbani has been an example of gross
discrimination, as the Tehsil have been suppressed by outsiders for years on.
"Our political representation in the Legislative Assembly has never belonged to
Sunderbani, which is the root cause of the miseries of the people of Tehsil
Sunderbani. People from outside have always exploited Sunderbani besides they
enjoyed power for many years altogether" he added.

Those present in the meeting were Amit Sharma, Rajinder Sharma, Sarabjit Sharma,
Gian Singh, Sunil Kumar (Panch), Mohd Altaf (Panch), Mohd Hussain, Mir Hussain,
Vivek Sharma (NGO Helping Hand), Pawan Kumar Sharma, Dimpy Raina (Satguru
Keshgir Sewa Samiti), Vinod Raina (Sathi NGO), Ashwani Kumar and Rajesh
Parasher.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday

All is not well at CMC, allege kin of deceased

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, July 21 -- The death of three persons owing to non-availability of oxygen
at the Cochin Cooperative Medical College(CMC) points fingers at the murderous
negligence of the hospital authorities and the lack of basic facilities at the
hospital, alleged a kin of the deceased.

Aneesh, a native of Nedumbasserry, whose father Varghese had died on July 17
owing to the alleged laxity of the hospital staff, told Express that the
condition of his father had worsened ever since he was admitted to the hospital.

Varghese was admitted to the hospital for tuberculosis six months ago. There was
no water supply in the hospital then, recalled Aneesh.

"One of the major problems that the hospital faces is the shortage of water. On
many occasions, my father had to be taken home to take him a bath.

Owing to the lack of water supply in the operation theatre, the operations have
been cancelled several times. In the summer, we were forced to fetch water from
the house," he said.

He also alleged the hospital was facing a acute staff shortage as well. "Not
more than one nurse was allotted to the TB ward for the night duty. The nurses
on duty keep away from the TB patients out of fear. When my father was in
critical condition, the nurse on duty never attended him," said Aneesh.

He added that the hospital authorities did not bother to dress the body of the
deceased and they had to avail of the services of another doctor. "We suspect
that the hospital authorities have committed some grave mistakes that led to his
death. The body fluids were discharging and it was a private doctor who dressed
the body for the funeral," he said.

Medical adviser of the hospital PGR Pillai said that the critical condition
alone led to the death and termed the the allegations raised by the kin of the
deceased as well as the political parties baseless.

"It is true that we are facing a shortage of nursing staff. Already we have 53
vacant posts for nurses. We have conducted interviews and new nurses would be
appointed soon," he said.

"The water crisis was in the summer season alone and currently we have 24-hour
water connection. The charges raised by the political party can be confirmed
only after the committee conducts an investigation. We have suspended the
persons against whom the allegations were raised," said Pillai. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Nation (Kenya)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

Ruto warns Raila over hospital row

BYLINE: SAMUEL KARANJA -1

LENGTH: 709  words


Mr Ruto said he stopped the rehabilitation contract because it was
unprocedurally procured.

Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday asked Cord leader Raila Odinga to
stop dragging his name into corruption scandals, warning that he was ready to
take a political war to the former Prime Minister's doorstep.
He accused Mr Odinga and his former personal assistant, Mr Herbet Ojwang, of
linking him to the scandal surrounding a Sh17 billion project to upgrade the Moi
Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret.


The project is under investigations by the Public Investment Committee (PIC)
over allegations that the cost had been inflated and that Mr Ruto had used his
influence to edge out Mr Ojwang from the deal. According to Mr Ojwang, Mr Ruto
had ordered the upgrading of the hospital stopped and had instead directed that
a new hospital be built next door at a cost of Sh28 billion.
Yesterday, Mr Ruto said he stopped the rehabilitation contract because it was
unprocedurally procured.
He said he had no apologies for ordering the cancellation because the money was
enough to build a new hospital.
HAVE NO APOLOGIES
"Some political saboteur and his personal assistant went to Parliament to tell
us how I stopped their project at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MRTH) in
Eldoret," said Mr Ruto during the commissioning of the Muthurwa power substation
in Nairobi. "I am the one who stopped the project and have no apologies to make
because the project was fraudulent, shady and corrupt from the beginning and it
has no place under the Jubilee administration."
He accused Mr Odinga and Mr Ojwang of attempting to rip off taxpayers and drag
his name in the scandal. "My friend the former Prime Minister and his PA must
keep off from me and if they are interested in a political duel, I am ready," Mr
Ruto said. "I stopped the project and they will not implement it in this
government. How can anybody in their rightful senses want to spend Sh17 billion
to renovate and do some extension in a hospital? How can anybody pretend that
they want to spend the Sh17 billion without a competitive tendering process?"
He was responding to allegations by Mr Ojwang' who had accused unnamed people in
Mr Ruto's office of edging him out of the upgrade tender. Mr Ojwang appeared
before PIC said the DP had trashed the  upgrade and instead ordered that a new
hospital be built on a piece of land allegedly belonging to the Kenya Prisons
Service.
EDGED OUT
He also claimed that Mr Caleb Kositany -- who is allied to Mr Ruto -- and the
Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital's chief executive, Dr John Kibosia, had
attended meetings in the DP's office and at the offices of China Wu Yi company.
According to him, he was edged out of the contract because he was associated
with Mr Odinga, who is Mr Ruto's political rival.

But Mr Ruto said the Sh17 billion would have been enough to build a new hospital
complete with theaters and all other facilities required in a hospital. He said
plans to build the new hospital were unstoppable.
"No amount of intimidation or blackmail will make us change course, I want to
tell political saboteurs and their personal assistants and the con men and
brokers that they have no space or room to keep masquerading and manipulating
their way in our system," he said.
But Mr Odinga while speaking during Citizen TV's Cheche show, said those
associating him with the hospital tender were only interested in dragging his
name in the mud.
HELPED CORD
Asked if he ever received any money from Chinese in the deal, he said: "Not at
all, not at all."
However, he added that he would not decline money from foreigners should they
decide to fund his campaign.
In a tape that Mr Ojwang presented to PIC and which he claimed to have recorded
secretly, he said that he had taken a Mr Lieu of the China Wu Yi company to Mr
Odinga's office where he gave the former PM Sh5 million.
He also claimed that Mr Lieu helped with Cord's 2013 presidential elections
which Mr Odinga lost to Mr Uhuru Kenyatta.
But yesterday, Mr Odinga said: "I have been scandalised and completely
embarrassed with these allegations. I have had no dealings with China Wu Yi at
all."
He said the allegations were part of the Jubilee Coalition's propaganda to
tarnish his image.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1144


                       Copyright 2015 Nation Media Group
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     May 21, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital at centre of unity debate: Outrage over the hiring of a former Parti
Quebecois candidate to run an Ottawa hospital is being portrayed as an example
of the gulf between Quebec and the rest of Canada.

BYLINE: JANICE TIBBETTS, ELIZABETH THOMPSON AND CAMPBELL CLARK; SOUTHAM NEWS; CP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 1272 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A dispute over hiring a former Parti Quebecois candidate to head an Ottawa
hospital exploded into a national-unity battle yesterday, pitting separatists
against federalists as David Levine waited to hear whether he would lose his
job.

Politicians from Prime Minister Jean Chretien in Rome to Quebec Premier Lucien
Bouchard in Chicago jumped into the debate over whether Levine's sovereignist
past makes him the wrong choice to run Ottawa Hospital, the city's newly
amalgamated megahospital.

The political squabbling followed an emotional public meeting Tuesday night,
where crowds bulged into the hallways of a local hospital. Outside, protesters
waved placards that read "Fire Levine" and "Separatists Must Go."

The bilingual anglophone from Quebec ran for the Parti Quebecois almost 20 years
ago, saying he wanted to build a bridge between the English and the French.

"In Canada, political considerations are not a question that we ask for
employment," Chretien said at a news conference in Rome, where he is on a trade
mission.

"We look at the qualities of the person to serve."

That's also the position of the hospital's board of directors, which has
repeatedly defended its choice despite the uproar that has persisted for more
than a week.

The hospital has received hundreds of calls, some from donors threatening to
stop sending money.

Others describe the furor as a witchhunt that smacks of the McCarthyism of the
1950s in the United States, where suspected communists were rounded up and
blacklisted.

Members of the board refused to comment yesterday, saying they wanted to take
the day to reflect before making a decision on Levine's future that is expected
today or tomorrow.

"Everybody wanted to sleep on it and take a day to reflect after the meeting,"
said a communications consultant hired by the hospital to field calls.

"To tell the truth, they did not expect as many people and as much acrimony."

In Chicago, where he is also on a trade mission, Bouchard described the attacks
on Levine as an "outburst of intolerance."

"I count on the good sense and democratic values of our fellow citizens in
Ottawa, in particular, to lower the tone and recognize that what counts is
competence," Bouchard said. "Since it is an administrative function, there is no
reason to get mixed up in the political opinions of people, and it's contrary to
one of the fundamental values of our democracy."

Bloc Quebecois leader Gilles Duceppe was less conciliatory, describing the
outcry as a blow to Quebec that will cast further doubt on whether Quebecers
will want to remain in Canada.

He suggested the kind of uproar that has exploded over Levine's separatist
credentials would not occur in Quebec.

Duceppe said that if Levine is fired for his political beliefs, it would be a
"bad signal" for Canada and Quebec.

"It's in Ottawa, the national capital, a bilingual city; a lot of those people
maybe came to Montreal in October 1995 saying they love us a lot and now it
seems to be quite different."

Despite his criticism, Duceppe said he believes Levine's critics represent a
minority.

"It's not the majority, I'm sure of that," he said, praising the hospital board
for refusing to give way.

Levine picked up an unexpected ally in Reform Party MP Deborah Grey, a
hard-liner against Quebec separatists.

"Nobody should ever be fired for his political beliefs," Grey said.

Although Levine was an unsuccessful PQ candidate in a 1979 byelection, Grey said
there were "all kinds of candidates" in the past who "still do excellent jobs."

Grey said she was not advising the hospital board or the community because the
decision is neither federal nor provincial.

In Toronto, Premier Mike Harris said the hospital would have been better off
hiring a foreigner who believes in Canada than a known separatist.

"Surely there is administrative capability within Ontario, or at least a
Canadian or even a non-Canadian who believes in Canada and keeping Canada
together," he told a talk show on Toronto's CFRB radio.

In Quebec, Deputy Premier Bernard Landry said the protest against Levine's
appointment was "disgraceful" and called on Canadian government leaders to calm
the waters.

"I don't think the rest of Canada as a whole is intolerant. I think it is a
gesture of intolerance that has to be denounced."

Later, after Harris's comments, Landry said if there is a positive side to the
affair, it is the evidence of the fundamental differences between Quebec and the
rest of Canada.

"To say that you prefer a foreigner to a Quebecer because of his political
opinions is not what I would call calming things down. . . . (This) is showing
that there are two nations, ours and the other."

By the end of the day, the incident was being portrayed as proof of the
insurmountable divide that separates Quebec from the rest of Canada.

Television reports featured image after image of angry, red-faced protesters
insulting the Quebec hospital administrator and voices in support of Levine
being shouted down. One report resurrected pictures of a handful of Ontarians
who trampled a Quebec flag in Brockville several years ago.

Quebec Liberal leader Jean Charest, however, told reporters that what was
happening in Ottawa was unacceptable. Like Landry, Charest called on federal
government leaders to intervene. "(These incidents) are unacceptable and when
they happen it is important for the political leadership to speak to them."

The hospital's volunteer board is faced with the task of weighing the public
opposition to Levine's keeping his $ 300,000-a-year job against their contention
that his experience makes him the best person for the job.

The board has also tried to dispel concerns among staff that Levine would
eventually limit jobs to those who are bilingual.

Editorials in the Ottawa Citizen and Ottawa Sun have called for Levine's
resignation, arguing that the debate over his politics will make him an
ineffective administrator.

Among other things, there has been friction over western Quebecers using
Ottawa's hospitals, a practice some say is forcing Ontario residents to wait in
line in their own city.

The appointment has divided area mayors and residents. Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson
said yesterday that Levine should "do the honorable thing and resign" for the
good of the institution.

"I think if I was David Levine, I would resign and put the good of the hospital
at the forefront," Watson said.

"There is such an overwhelmingly negative reaction to his appointment because of
his background that it's going to have a far-reaching and negative impact on the
hospital."

But former Vanier mayor Gisele Lalonde, who led the campaign to save Ottawa's
only francophone hospital, the Montfort, said yesterday she supports Levine's
hiring and believes it will help the federalist cause.

"He said himself he's there to build bridges and I believe him," she said.

"You have 49 per cent of the people in Quebec who have voted for separatism. If
we want those people to change and become federalists, we have to welcome them
in Canada"

Levine, who could not be reached yesterday, told a news conference late last
week that he has no political agenda. He said he is an experienced hospital
manager who had a long and successful career in Quebec before his appointment
last year as the province's envoy to New York.

He worked in Quebec's hospital system under PQ and Liberal governments and
politics was never an issue in his work.

Unity Minister Stephane Dion accused separatist politicians of trying to make
political gains from the affair.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ETIENNE MORIN, LE DROIT / Joe Lemaire was among about 500 people
who turned out in Ottawa to protest against David Levine's appointment as
hospital chief executive.

Photo: Levine: Former PQ candidate.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 998 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1991, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 February, 1991

                         Vol. 24, No. 2, HOSPLW Pg. 69

LENGTH: 458 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS: Community hospital immune from the
running of statute of limitations

AUTHOR: R.S./M.P.

TEXT:

   The Supreme Court of Mississippi affirmed a trial court's order finding a
community hospital immune from the running of statutes of limitation.  A
chancery court had taken judicial notice in a collection suit that the hospital
was jointly owned by a municipality and a county corporation.  The court held
the hospital was a political subdivision of the state and thus immune from the
running of the applicable statute of limitations.

   The hospital was a judgment lien creditor of debtor husband and wife.  The
hospital had the judgment enrolled in November 1978, and a lien was perfected
upon all property the debtors owned within the county.  The judgment, although
properly recorded, had never been renewed.  In the spring of 1986, the debtors
contracted to sell some real estate within the county.  In the course of
examining title, the buyer discovered the hospital's unsatisfied judgment.  The
debtors closed the real estate transaction and placed funds in escrow.  The
escrow agent interpled in chancery court.

   Under state statute, a judgment lien is ordinarily extinguished after seven
years unless it is renewed.  The debtor claimed the hospital was barred from
collecting on the lien because the lien had not been renewed and the seven-year
statute of limitations had run.  The state constitution provides civil statutes
of limitation do not run against any subdivisions of the state or against
municipal corporations.  The trial court held defendant hospital was a political
subdivision of the state and thus immune to the running of the statute of
limitations.

   The debtors claimed the record did not support the finding that the hospital
was a political subdivision of the state and contended the ownership, operation,
and status of a hospital was not a matter which may be judicially noticed.  The
supreme court ruled the trial court was correct in holding the hospital's status
was generally known within the community, and, alternatively, it was capable of
ready determination from public records.  Therefore, the court approved of the
trial court's taking notice that the hospital was a subdivision of the state.

   State statute provides that any county, political subdivision, or
municipality of the state may acquire and hold real estate for a community
hospital.  The court found the municipality and the county hospital district
created a community hospital under the statute.  Furthermore, defendant hospital
was substantially supported by public funds.  The court held the hospital was a
subdivision of the state, or municipal corporation thereof, within the meaning
of the constitution and the relevant statute.  Accordingly, the statute of
limitations governing judgment liens was inoperative against the hospital.

REFERENCE: Enroth v. Memorial Hosp. at Gulfport, 566 So. 2d 202 (Miss. 1990).


                              235 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The News Courier (Athens, Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 17, 2010 Sunday

Hospital official, DA refute political advertisement claim

BYLINE: Karen Middleton, The News Courier, Athens, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1181 words


Oct. 17--Exaggeration is no stranger to political advertising, especially as the
days grow short to election day.

But an Athens-Limestone Hospital official says a political ad for Republican
candidate for district attorney, Brian C.T. Jones, which quotes local
obstetrician-gynecologist Thomas Pitman that there are "hundreds of cases
annually" of babies born to mothers addicted to meth, cocaine and illegally
obtained drugs is misleading.

Pitman states in a televised ad, which also appears on Jones' Facebook social
networking page that he has delivered "40 percent of the babies in Limestone
County in the last 10 years and hundreds have been born under the influence of
illegal drugs."

Jones is challenging Democratic incumbent Kristi Valls in the Nov. 2 General
Election and he says she hasn't been diligent enough in prosecuting drug cases.

Jim Moffatt, chairman of the hospital board of directors, said he has been
inundated with calls since Jones' ad appeared on TV and print publications.
Moffatt wrote a letter to The News Courier seeking to give a clearer picture of
the "meth baby" situation locally.

There might be "hundreds of cases annually" of children born to drug abusers,
but they are not being born locally, he said.

"Athens-Limestone Hospital and our physicians take very seriously the health
care of mothers and babies that we deliver," wrote Moffatt. "Since January 1 of
2010, 369 babies have been born at Athens-Limestone Hospital. Of those, 14 of
those babies were considered drug dependency issues, and in five of those cases,
crystal methamphetamine was involved.

"Of those 14 drug cases, four of those involved residents of other counties,
three from Madison County and one from Lauderdale County. Of the 14 cases,
Athens-Limestone Hospital referred 12 to the Limestone County Department of
Human Resources, the other two cases already had the Department of Human
Resources involved. The numbers for Athens-Limestone Hospital and Limestone
County are much lower than surrounding counties.

"The hospital and its staff believe it important that this issue be addressed
and that patient and community safety takes precedence over political sound
bites. One meth baby is one too many. Athens-Limestone Hospital has always had
the greatest cooperation from law enforcement, the Department of Human
Resources, and the Limestone County District Attorney's Office in dealing with
the cases we do have."

On a locally produced TV program Friday, both Jones and Pitman reiterated what
was published in the ad. Pitman said the ad originated when he initiated a call
to Jones inquiring about prosecution and penalties for addicted mothers because
he said he was seeing increasing numbers of such patients in his practice.

"I've never been political," said Pitman on the Jamie Cooper Show. "But
Americans complain a lot but don't put their foot down. And the problem is
getting worse and worse."

Pitman did not state numbers during his appearance on the show.

However, Jones called his campaign advertising "a powerful ad."

"The system is a revolving door," said Jones. He said he had checked state
statistics on Limestone County.

"Between 2002 and 2009 Limestone County processed 7,500 cases and only 16 went
to jury trial," he said. "We have got a problem."

Jones said drug users, manufacturers and dealers are going through the system
sometimes six times, "and only getting a slap on the wrist and away they go."

Jones further said his campaign promise is: "If you sell, cook or use meth,
we're going to put you in jail and I'll work seven days a week if necessary."

Valls

Valls said Friday that mothers giving birth to babies under the influence of
illegal drugs have only been prosecuted locally since 2007 and she doesn't know
where Pitman is deriving his claim of "hundreds."

She said her records show 12 mothers in four years against which law enforcement
officials could "make a case."

"On June 1, 2006, the state enacted the chemical endangerment law for situations
in which someone in a meth house had a lab and children were present," said
Valls. "They wanted a tool for that purpose, so they passed the law.

"The law was since used to take in those who also use meth, smoke crack or
marijuana while pregnant. Since it was enacted, Limestone County law enforcement
has arrested and made cases to bring for prosecution 32 people in four years.

"Of those 32 cases, 12 involved babies born at Athens-Limestone Hospital. Of the
12 cases that were made, they were mandatorily reported (by doctors) to DHR,
which takes them to law enforcement, which then brings it to me. If a doctor
doesn't report it, then it doesn't go.

"If there is no probable cause, it is not brought to me. I am comfortable that
law enforcement and DHR handled those cases properly."

Valls said of those 12 cases, six are pending because they either haven't gone
to the grand jury or they are awaiting a court date. Three have been convicted,
and of those three, two are on supervised probation in which they must undergo
periodic drug testing, and one has been sentenced to jail.

Three were "nol prossed." Valls said of those three, two completed 12 to 18
months of drug court in which for pleading guilty up front and completion, they
have their charges dismissed. The remaining person completed drug rehabilitation
but had her parental rights terminated before her case was dismissed.

7,500 cases

Valls said that Jones has cited the 7,500 cases processed and the prosecution by
her of just 16 jury trials in political forums.

Valls acknowledges that she has prosecuted just 16 jury trials, but she said
they include various offenses, including murder, and are not all drug related.
She said she has been unable to determine where Jones derives his oft-stated
number of 7,500 defendants processed for court.

She said the Administrative Office of Courts in Montgomery, which keeps those
figures, archives all felonies and circuit court cases. But she said included in
those numbers are defendants who appeal their misdemeanor convictions in circuit
court.

"He equates jury trials with justice, but justice is meant in a number of ways,"
said Valls. She said her assistants try cases and many defendants plead guilty.
As for Jones' claim that Limestone County has one of the highest incidence of
recidivism in the state, Valls said, "I've never heard that in my life, and all
I have to say is prove it."

Valls says Limestone County only allots eight jury trial weeks a year and there
is just one courtroom in which jury trials can be held.

"Name me another county that has eight weeks for jury trials and one courtroom,
then we can compare it with Limestone County," she said.

To see more of The News Courier or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.enewscourier.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The News Courier, Athens, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101017-XN-Hospital-official-DA-refute-political
-advertisement-claim-1017-20101017

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XN


                        Copyright 2010 The News Courier


                              236 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday

Chippenham politicians join forces for hospital campaign

BYLINE: Laura Williams

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: The Wiltshire Gazette And Herald


Chippenham politicians from opposing parties have joined forces to help save
Chippenham hospital.

Both the Conservative and the Liberal Democrat prospective candidates for the
new Chippenham ward have spoken of their horror at Wiltshire Primary Care
Trust's (PCT) plan to cut beds at the town's hospital.

Conservative Wilfred Emmanuel-Jones and Liberal Democrat Duncan Hames will both
attend the Chippenham Hospital Action Group (CHAG) meeting in Chippenham Town
Hall on March 1.

They will join medical staff, including Chippenham GP Nick Brown, North
Wiltshire MP James Gray and district and town councillors as well as patients
and carers.

Mr Emmanuel-Jones, who is also known as the Black Farmer, has already signed the
online petition against the NHS cuts in Chippenham.

He said: "It is the height of madness with all the plans that there are, for
growth in Chippenham for the next 10-20 years, that they are actually thinking
of reducing the number of beds. It's very important for all of us to try and
convince them that we are going to need a really good, proper, functioning
hospital.

"This is non political, it's about us lending our support to the medical
profession."

Mr Hames has high hopes for the CHAG and said it was a rare occasion for
politicians and supporters from all political parties to help make a difference.

He said: "I'm very glad that we appear to have cross party support for the
Chippenham hospital. We really can achieve a lot more when we work together.

"Concern about our hospital is the most consistently mentioned issue by local
residents who I speak to when I go visiting them. It's important that we help
them find a voice.

"It's time that the government made available to capital funding for investment
in Chippenham hospital. We haven't seen a penny yet.

"It's important that we should all make clear to the government how important it
is that we do invest in our community hospital in Chippenham."

Prospective labour candidate Nick Thomas-Symonds and Green Party candidate
Lorraine Roberts-Rance were unavailable for comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wilfred Emmanual Jones and Duncan Hames lend Cross party Support to the
Chippenham Hospital Campaign

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   November 12, 1998, Thursday, METRO EDITION

It's time to really talk about health care

BYLINE: By Howard Hampton

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 505 words


   Sadly, political debate in Ontario has sunk to a new low this week.

The Harris Conservatives are trying to distract attention from the chaos and
failure of their health-care policies with millions of dollars worth of partisan
attack ads on the easiest target imaginable: the vagueness of Ontario Liberal
policies.

It may well be true that Dalton McGuinty will keep his views hidden as long as
possible, then, if elected, continue on the same track as the Conservatives. But
I fail to see how a television and newspaper bombardment of
American/Republican-style partisan advertising will address the very real
concerns that the Ontario public has with the massive cuts and changes that the
Harris government has levelled on Ontario's health-care system.

As with its education agenda, the Harris government's health-care plans are
about cuts, not quality. According to the Ontario Hospital Association, almost
half our hospitals are insolvent. The community and home-care reinvestments that
are supposed to replace services that used to be provided in hospitals are
either underfunded or non-existent. More and more patients and their families
are being forced to pay out of pocket for health care or do without. In Ontario,
the gold card is replacing the health card.

The Ontario NDP has done its homework. Starting last year, we issued a
discussion paper on health policy, carried out meetings and discussions around
the province as part of our Dialogue for Change, and then approved our party's
policy in open debate at our convention last May.

If elected we will introduce and pass Ontario's first Health Care Accountability
Act and Patients' Bill of Rights to put the focus of Ontario's health care
system where it belongs: on patients. We will provide increased funding for
Ontario's hospitals to ensure adequate patient care. We will extend the
principles of accessibility and universality to the long-term care sector
(nursing homes, home c are and community based care). We'll look at the services
people need and what they've lost under the Harris cuts. And we'll provide the
money to make sure everyone gets the appropriate services they need in their
communities.

We will pay for these commitments by rolling back the Harris income tax scheme
for individuals who benefit the most, those with taxable incomes of $80,000 a
year or more. We believe investing that $1.5 billion in health care, education
and our communities is far wiser than giving it away to the people who already
have the most money.

Finally, if Mike Harris truly believes it is critical for the public to know
where the party leaders stand on health care, I challenge him to scrap the
attack ads and participate in a televised public debate with the Liberal Leader
and me on the future of our health-care system and the future of our province.
I'm sure the public would find a debate on the issues far more informative than
his partisan propaganda.

Howard Hampton is Leader of the Ontario New Democratic Party.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              238 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 15, 2000 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Surfing the waiting lists

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Leaders; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 605 words


THE NSW president of the Australian Medical Association, Dr Kerryn Phelps, says
the decision to place the waiting times for all doctors performing elective
surgery in NSW public hospitals on the Internet is a "distraction" by the State
Government to divert blame from itself to the doctors. Dr Phelps insists that
the waiting times are "the worst they have ever been in NSW". There is a duty
owed by the State Government, accordingly, to "fund health properly". This
rationalisation, unfortunately, sounds eerily like the rhetoric that comes from
the NSW Teachers Federation whenever the State Government tries to bring in
processes that will force some accountability on teachers.

The fact is that Dr Phelps is arguing as a representative of a group of
professionals, like the teachers, who will not accept the need for their clients
to be given information that might make their choices more informed. By opposing
the release of the elective surgery waiting lists, Dr Phelps is trying to ensure
that any public scrutiny of the efficiency of doctors is kept from the public.
The logic in her argument (or chopped logic) is that the public can't be trusted
to understand the nuances behind the information being placed on the Internet.

There is no merit in this argument. The public can understand that the Internet
information needs to be put into context. Doctors take holidays. They have
sabbaticals. Some doctors have only a limited access to particular hospitals.
Some hospitals close during holidays. Other hospitals cut their operating
sessions when they run short of money. These are not difficult notions to grasp.
Moreover, if some lay people cannot find out these details, their GPs are
certainly able to get the information to them.

It is the AMA, then, that is providing a self-serving distraction, rather than
the State Government. This is clear from the statement made by the
director-general of NSW Health, Mick Reid, supporting the new move: "This is
designed to help patients and general practictioners make informed decisions
about their surgery ... and to demystify hospital procedures."

This last point is important. Until now the waiting times for elective surgery
have been treated by the political parties as a political rather than as a
health problem. Promises have been made famously during one election campaign by
the Premier, Mr Carr that there will be resignations if the waiting times are
not shortened. The effect of these promises has been to shift the emphasis in
the management of the waiting times problem to arcane matters of what cases
should go on the lists. The extent of the waiting times list, how long or how
short it is, has become the issue of political debate rather than what measures
are needed to make elective surgery processes more efficient.

The main way successive State governments have sought to protect themselves in
this phony debate over the waiting times has been to control, as tightly as
possible, the list information. Although the Minister for Health was getting the
information that has now been placed on the Internet every month, the Opposition
and the media had to rely on Freedom of Information legislation to prise bits
and pieces of information out of the minister's control. Now that the State
Government has abandoned its policy of utmost secrecy on waiting times, it
should move towards openness in other areas of the health portfolio. The safety
records of hospitals, for instance, should also be fully exposed on the
Internet. This will make patients' choices of hospital better informed. It will
also help hospitals improve their performances in such vital areas.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 998 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1990, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 November, 1990

                        Vol. 23, No. 11, HOSPLW Pg. 337

LENGTH: 378 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: IMMUNITY: Private hospital's performance of a governmental
function does not make it a governmental agency entitled to immunity

AUTHOR: A.S./M.K.

TEXT:

   The Michigan Court of Appeals affirmed a trial court's denial of defendant
hospital's motion for summary judgment based on the defense of governmental
immunity.  The court held, despite the performance of governmental functions and
substantial interconnections between the city and defendant hospital, the
hospital was a private entity, not a governmental agency as defined and shielded
by the governmental immunity statute.

   Defendant was a nonprofit hospital funded and incorporated by a private party
for the benefit of citizens of the city and county in which it was located.  The
hospital leased its property from the city.  The board of trustees consisted of
the members of the city hospital commission, and the articles of association
provided that members of the nonstock corporation be residents of the city.

   Defendant hospital moved for summary judgment on the ground that it was
immune from liability under a state governmental immunity statute.  This statute
grants tort immunity to public hospitals that are governmental agencies engaged
in nonprofit governmental functions.  Defendant argued it should be immune from
liability because it was performing a governmental function for the people of
the city.

   The court noted that a private entity's performance of a governmental
function did not confer governmental agency status on the entity.  The statute
required a governmental agency be performing a governmental function.  Under the
statute, "governmental agency" included the state, political subdivisions and
municipal corporations.  "Political subdivision" was defined as including any
municipal corporation formed by one or more political subdivisions.  The court
noted defendant hospital was formed and incorporated by individuals rather than
by one or more political subdivisions.  Furthermore, the hospital retained a
separate, nongovernmental corporate identity, and its employees were not
municipal employees.  The court also noted the hospital was not operated by the
city, but by a board of trustees which was quasi-independent from the city, and
was financially independent except for a de minimis annual appropriation of $
2,700 from the city.  Thus, the court concluded defendant was a private entity
not entitled to immunity.

REFERENCE: O'Neill v. Emma Bixby Hosp., 182 Mich. App. 252, 451 N.W.2d 594
(1990).


                              240 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 16, 2005, Sunday

4 HOSPITALS TURNED AWAY DYING MAN;
 DEATH OF PENSIONER, 70, SPARKS HEALTH SERVICE POLITICAL BUST-UP

BYLINE: BY KEVIN MCDONNELL

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 463 words

HIGHLIGHT: Joe Costello accuses Mary Harney of reneging on her promise to
improve A&E services


A PENSIONER died from a bleeding ulcer after he was turned away from FOUR
hospitals.

Patrick Walsh's death on Friday sparked a furious political storm last night.

Health and Safety Executive chiefs have promised to investigate the
70-year-old's death and furious hospital campaigners hit out at the running down
of health services in Co Monaghan.

Mr Walsh, of Carrickmacross, went to Monaghan General Hospital on Thursday with
a bleeding ulcer.

But the hospital could not give him the surgery he required because it is not
allowed to carry out emergency services.

He was then transferred to Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital, Drogheda, then Cavan
General Hospital and finally the Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, none of which had
intensive care beds available.

Last night Cavan/Monaghan Independent TD Paudge Connolly demanded an immediate
restoration of full surgical services at Monaghan General Hospital in the wake
of the pensioner's death.

"The tragic death of a 70-year pensioner, despite receiving seven pints of
blood, was eminently avoidable.

"The patient had been admitted to Monaghan General Hospital on Thursday with a
bleeding ulcer but the hospital surgeons were prohibited from performing the
necessary emergency surgery to save his life.

"The seven consultant surgeons in Monaghan and Cavan General hospitals issued
their unanimous needs-driven call three weeks ago for the restoration of 7-day
24-hour acute surgical emergency services, which were removed from Monaghan in
2002, to be immediately restored.

"So far this appeal has fallen on deaf ears, with tragedies like this waiting to
happen."

It is the second tragedy to hit the Walsh family. Two years ago, his younger
brother Francis was killed by a crazed bull in Carrickmacross.

Pat McLaughlin, Director of the National Hospital Office, has now called for a
full report that will be carried out by the Hospital Network manager.

Meanwhile, a heart patient was forced to wait for treatment on a chair in a
storeroom at the Mater Hospital in Dublin, TD Joe Costello claimed as he
continued his weekly protest over the A&E crisis.

The Labour Party's justice spokesman said the man, who had collapsed at home,
was put in the storeroom because there was no room in the emergency ward.

He was told he was 35th in line for treatment and would have to wait on the
chair for three or four days but chose to check himself out.

Deputy Costello said: "This is the sad and sorry state of our emergency
medicine.

"Health Minister Mary Harney promised more than a year ago her 10-point plan
promising major improvements in A&E.

"The situation is continuing to deteriorate rapidly.

"Effectively there is no A&E service for seriously ill and vulnerable people."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.


                              241 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                  May 12, 2007

Inquiry urged over hospital:shelved children's hospital

LENGTH: 411 words


In response to the letter from Peter Bagnall (YEP, May 4), I wholeheartedly
agree that we should be critical of the Leeds Hospitals Trust over the way they
have behaved over the shelving of the plans for the much needed Children's and
Maternity Hospital.

There is certainly a need for an investigation into this decision and I have
asked the Health Minister in Parliament if she will undertake to do this.

However, he is wrong in one respect. He says "The buck stops in the Trust's
hands." It doesn't. In a democratic country the buck stops with the Department
for Health of the elected Government who have put unelected managers in place to
deliver health services for the public. And I am sure that Patricia Hewitt, the
Secretary of State for Health, and indeed the Prime Minister fully accept that.

He also seems to misunderstand the role of MPs. Raising important issues like
this in parliament is not "blaming political parties," it is doing what I was
elected to do as an MP - making sure the Government delivers for your area and
addresses problems as they arise. Indeed, it is for MPs of all parties to do
that and for the Government to respond.

The well-known deficiencies in children's hospital services in Leeds are indeed
a matter for the Department for Health to address and so I am pleased that the
recent coverage, including from my debate and questions in Parliament, has led
to a public commitment from the Government to get the hospital back on track.

As for the silly letter from the Conservative parliamentary candidate in my area
(YEP, May 5), she should get her facts straight before making frankly irrelevant
attacks. She has a lot to learn if she thinks it is an MP's job to cow-tow to
the highly-paid managers running our health services. It also speaks volumes
that instead of joining the campaigns over the Children's Hospital and
Wharfedale Hospital, she is instead defending the Prime Minister's dishonest
attack on me in Parliament, something he is on record as apologising for.

In contrast, her colleagues on the council, as with political representatives of
all parties, know that we need the new hospital in Leeds and have pledged to
campaign until we get it.

I am clear that my job is to stand up for the people of this area, locally and
in Parliament, and I will continue to do so, regardless of petty, irrelevant and
dishonest attacks, especially when hospital services are inadequate or
threatened.

Greg Mulholland, MP for Leeds North West

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                February 5, 2001

Hospital problems highlighted

BYLINE: Amy Binns (author email abinns@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 325 words

DATELINE: Bolton



AT this stage of the political game -- with a General Election date pending and
the party machines revving up -- dramatic statements are likely from all major
political groups.

However, Cllr Barbara Ronson's statements today about severe problems at the
Royal Bolton Hospital are very worrying in their own right.

She says that a beds' shortage means that the hospital is unable to cope, in
spite of there being no flu epidemic so far this winter.

Operations are being cancelled because of this. She has first-hand knowledge
because her husband Bob's hernia operation has been cancelled three times and he
now has to wait until March.

Local residents have been complaining to her about elderly patients left in
corridors overnight in trolleys. And she also alleges that there is a shortage
of blankets.

Inevitably, Mrs Ronson's party, the Liberal Democrats, are calling for a "long
hard look at how the NHS is run."

Labour MP Ruth Kelly denies some of the allegations, and a hospital spokeswoman
says that they have been "very busy" and apologises for cancelled operations.

Even given the current political climate, complaints from members of the public
to a local councillor mean that the situation at RBH has to be a cause for
concern.

MP Dr Brian Iddon, whose Bolton constituency includes the hospital, blames
underfunding of the Wigan and Bolton health authority.

He says that wards are being refurbished and more bed spaces provided with some
of the extra money recently awarded by the Government. Now, further discussions
will be under way this month on how to spend the extra NHS cash.

No doubt, the Bolton public will be eagerly awaiting the outcome of these talks,
and looking for improvements in the service provided at the hospital.

We trust that these will be visible and effective as quickly as possible, to
give local people the standard of health care they can reasonably expect.



LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


                              243 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 19, 2003

Plans To Cut Hospital Waiting Times

BYLINE: Caroline Page

SECTION: News; Politics; Elections; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 254 words


The Liberal Democrats yesterday launched their plans to cut patient waiting
times by putting more staff and beds in Scotland's hospitals. Parliamentary
candidate Nicol Stephen pledged GBP 50million a year to implement the plans to
tackle the country's health service.

The party aims to free beds by employing 2,000 more nurses, 300 consultants and
1,500 other health professionals such as physiotherapists, radiographers and
dieticians.

It also hopes to clear 500 beds a day by reducing hospital-acquired infections.

Yesterday, Mr Stephen, who was on the election trail at Aberdeen Royal
Infirmary, said: "It is shocking that 500,000 bed days every year are occupied
by patients who caught an infection in hospital.

"We will reduce the transmission of illness within hospitals with a hospital
-based infection control strategy.

"Our policy will be delivered by doubling the number of specialist
infection-control nurses." The Lib Dems also outlined plans to reduce waiting
times by increasing community and convalescence places by 1,000 and making
increased use of local health centres.

The party also pledged to offer patients who have had to wait longer than the
guaranteed period the choice of being treated privately or outside Scotland.

Mr Stephen added: "Those in need of medical treatment deserve better and
Scottish Liberal Democrats are determined to see they get it.

"Our five-point plan will make the difference by cutting waiting times and
increasing the number of beds available." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal


                              244 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Your Ottawa Region

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LeBlanc makes fashion, political statement in fight for new hospital

BYLINE: Desmond Devoy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 358  words


CARLETON PLACE - Mayor Wendy LeBlanc is known for making political statements,
but she managed to marry both fashion and political statements in the fight for
a new hospital last week.

Her Worship sported a striking purple scarf at the policy review committee
meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 13, which also fetchingly doubles as an arm-band for
the fellows.

"We need, want, and deserve a new hospital," said LeBlanc emphatically.

She had toyed with the idea of black arm bands in memoriam for the hospital.

"We decided that wouldn't be appropriate," said LeBlanc.

Echoing other campaigns like the SOS Montfort campaign in the 1990s to save
Ottawa's east-end Francophone hospital, campaign buttons are on order and signs
will be posted around town like they were in the run up to Afghanistan Veterans
Appreciation Day this past August.

"Gimmicks work," she said.

While this paper went to press before the Carleton Place and District Chamber of
Commerce's all-candidates debate at the Arklan Community Public School on Sept.
21 (see next week's paper for debate coverage), LeBlanc encouraged the community
to get involved in the election process in the Lanark, Frontenac, Lennox and
Addington riding.

"Tell, don't ask your candidate," about the need for a new hospital, LeBlanc
advised, if a candidate should come knocking on your door between now and Oct.
6.

"Every chance I get, I will plug that," she said.

LeBlanc revealed that she has spoken to the Progressive Conservative incumbent,
Randy Hillier, who has already toured the Carleton Place and District Memorial
Hospital. Liberal candidate Bill MacDonald is scheduled to tour the hospital
during the campaign.

LeBlanc also noted that area politicians, like her council colleagues, were
coordinating their efforts with the hospital, with a list of talking points.

"It is our initiative," said LeBlanc. "But it is also Beckwith Township council
on board with it. We'll keep going until we get our shovel in the ground."

The desire for a new hospital was met with approval around the council table.

"It's not an option," said Coun. Jerry Flynn. "We need this hospital."

"We've been left behind," said Coun. Doug Black.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Your Ottawa Region

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LeBlanc makes fashion, political statement in fight for new hospital

BYLINE: Desmond Devoy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 358  words


CARLETON PLACE - Mayor Wendy LeBlanc is known for making political statements,
but she managed to marry both fashion and political statements in the fight for
a new hospital last week.

Her Worship sported a striking purple scarf at the policy review committee
meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 13, which also fetchingly doubles as an arm-band for
the fellows.

"We need, want, and deserve a new hospital," said LeBlanc emphatically.

She had toyed with the idea of black arm bands in memoriam for the hospital.

"We decided that wouldn't be appropriate," said LeBlanc.

Echoing other campaigns like the SOS Montfort campaign in the 1990s to save
Ottawa's east-end Francophone hospital, campaign buttons are on order and signs
will be posted around town like they were in the run up to Afghanistan Veterans
Appreciation Day this past August.

"Gimmicks work," she said.

While this paper went to press before the Carleton Place and District Chamber of
Commerce's all-candidates debate at the Arklan Community Public School on Sept.
21 (see next week's paper for debate coverage), LeBlanc encouraged the community
to get involved in the election process in the Lanark, Frontenac, Lennox and
Addington riding.

"Tell, don't ask your candidate," about the need for a new hospital, LeBlanc
advised, if a candidate should come knocking on your door between now and Oct.
6.

"Every chance I get, I will plug that," she said.

LeBlanc revealed that she has spoken to the Progressive Conservative incumbent,
Randy Hillier, who has already toured the Carleton Place and District Memorial
Hospital. Liberal candidate Bill MacDonald is scheduled to tour the hospital
during the campaign.

LeBlanc also noted that area politicians, like her council colleagues, were
coordinating their efforts with the hospital, with a list of talking points.

"It is our initiative," said LeBlanc. "But it is also Beckwith Township council
on board with it. We'll keep going until we get our shovel in the ground."

The desire for a new hospital was met with approval around the council table.

"It's not an option," said Coun. Jerry Flynn. "We need this hospital."

"We've been left behind," said Coun. Doug Black.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Contortions of Psychiatry in China

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 513 words


The abuse of psychiatry to intimidate and torture dissidents in the Soviet Union
was well documented and loudly deplored by the West. The practice in China has
received less comment, but Beijing, too, imprisons nonconformists as mentally
ill -- a policy that deserves worldwide attention and forceful condemnation from
foreign governments, including the United States.

During the Cultural Revolution, the genuinely mentally ill were routinely
"treated" with political re-education, and healthy people who did not hew to the
prevailing political line were often imprisoned in psychiatric hospitals. Such
abuses diminished as China became more open and psychiatry became more
professional and scientific.

Today, however, the abuse of psychiatry once again appears to be increasing in
China. The government has forcibly imprisoned members of Falun Gong in
psychiatric hospitals. Falun Gong, a popular movement that advocates channeling
energy through deep breathing and exercises, has been the target of a
heavy-handed government crackdown marked with abuses reminiscent of the Cultural
Revolution, among them the misuse of psychiatry.

Movement leaders claim that some 600 members have been forcibly detained in
mental hospitals. This number is impossible to verify, but journalists and human
rights researchers have documented numerous cases of Falun Gong members being
taken to psychiatric institutions and drugged, physically restrained, isolated
or given electric shocks.

Robin Munro, a senior researcher at the University of London, explores some of
these cases in an article published last month in The Columbia Journal of Asian
Law. Mr. Munro, who has also worked for Amnesty International and Human Rights
Watch investigating abuses in China, estimates that at least 3,000 people have
been sent to mental hospitals for expressing political views in the past two
decades, not including Falun Gong members.

Another alarming development is the network of new police psychiatric hospitals
-- called Ankangs, which means "peace and happiness" -- built since 1987.
Chinese law includes "political harm to society" as legally dangerous mentally
ill behavior. Police are instructed to take into psychiatric custody "political
maniacs," defined as people who make anti-government speeches, write reactionary
letters or "express opinions on important domestic and international affairs."
Erik Eckholm of The Times has reported that at least one labor leader was
detained and given shock therapy in a psychiatric hospital. There are currently
20 Ankangs, and the government plans to build many more.

An international gathering of psychiatrists, which investigated similar abuses
in the Soviet Union, is trying to publicize China's practices and organize an
investigation by members of the World Psychiatric Association. Psychiatric
imprisonment is not a widespread phenomenon compared with the Chinese
government's use of prisons and labor camps for dissidents. But it is a
particularly noxious practice, and one that deserves more attention and
criticism than it has so far received.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                   February 13, 2003 Thursday Ontario Edition

Clement donations from bid groups draw fire

BYLINE: Theresa Boyle, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 322 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Companies sought hospital deals NDP, unions ask for conflict probe

Health Minister Tony Clement is in a conflict of interest for accepting
political donations from private consortiums bidding to build and operate an
Ottawa hospital, Ontario New Democrats and union activists charge.

They held a news conference yesterday to ask the province's integrity
commissioner to investigate the allegation.

"Corporations with a direct interest in these hospitals ... have made donations
to the minister of health, who is ultimately responsible for giving the green
light to these corporations and these projects," said Michael Hurley, president
of the Ontario Council of Hospital Unions.

"There is a reasonable concern that a conflict may have occurred such as to
warrant an inquiry by the integrity commissioner."

A spokesperson for Clement denied any wrongdoing, saying the tendering process
is at arm's length from the government.

At issue is the Conservative government's decision to allow the private sector
to build and equip hospitals in Brampton and Ottawa and then lease them back to
the public. The arrangement is known as a public-private partnership or P3.

The health ministry confirmed yesterday a third hospital was last month granted
permission to come up with such a proposal. The Markham Stouffville Hospital is
considering such an arrangement, which would incorporate a hospital in Uxbridge.

Hurley said Clement received political donations for his leadership campaign
last year from members of private consortiums short-listed for a deal to build
the Ottawa P3.

The construction company Aecon made a $10,000 donation; Borealis Infrastructure
donated $2,500; construction company Ellis Don gave $1,400; and PCL Construction
Canada gave $1,000.

NDP Leader Howard Hampton yesterday wrote integrity commissioner Coulter Osborne
asking him to look into the case. A spokesperson said the commissioner's office
had yet to receive an official complaint.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              248 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday

Hospital campaigners warn TDs as merger plans are unveiled

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words


Plans to further merge services at Cavan and Monaghan hospitals look set to make
the provision of hospital facilities in the border counties a major election
issue.

Campaigners fighting to save Monaghan hospital voiced their fears yesterday that
services would continue to be eroded before any new hospital is built.

This followed the disclosure that the Health Service Executive are currently
working on proposals to merge the Departments of Medicine at the two hospitals.

The Monaghan Community Alliance Group also questioned when the proposed new
regional hospital for the North East will be completed and whether it will be
located closer to Dublin than Monaghan or Cavan.

"It will cost in the region of  250m but when will it be built? Possibly never,"
Alliance chairman Peadar McMahon.

He said that a major concern for local people was that critically ill patients
may not survive a journey of some 80 miles or more from Monaghan to a regional
hospital located in Co Meath.

He said that members of the alliance would be meeting with political parties in
the area in the coming weeks to find out their position on the HSE plans and
this could determine whether an independent local candidate standing on a '
hospital' ticket will be fielded.

He said no decision would be announced until the commitments of the various
political parties to health services for the area were known and a general
election had been called.

He said those campaigning to save Monaghan hospital were "angry but not
surprised" at the announcement on Thursday that the HSE are working on proposals
to merge the Departments of Medicine at Cavan and Monaghan hospitals before the
end of the year following the recent merging of the hospitals' surgical
departments.

In an interview with the Anglo-Celt newspaper, surgeon Elis McGovern, director
of the project team for the new regional hospital, said a consultancy firm would
be chosen shortly to make a decision on the location and would have eight weeks
to come up with their recommendation.

Eugene Moloney and Patrick Tierney

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                               December 21, 2011
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Politicians in hospital future row

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 353 words


LLANELLI'S Prince Philip Hospital is at the centre of a political row.

The town's Labour AM Keith Davies has been accused of appearing "unwilling" to
discuss the future of the hospital by Plaid Cymru Mid and West AM Simon Thomas.

Mr Thomas pointed to a leaked email, sent from the Glanymor and Tyisha Safer
Communities Action Group in November.

The email - mainly about the group's planned visit to the Senedd on December 8
where they would be meeting Mr Davies - stated that if people wanted to discuss
Prince Philip Hospital with anyone in the Welsh Assembly, then they would need
to do so on a separate visit.

Mr Thomas said: "It seems that Keith Davies was unwilling to be questioned about
the future of Prince Philip Hospital when constituents were visiting the Senedd.

"He has also pulled out of a debate with me about the future of the health
service in West Wales on S4C's CF99 programme.

"This can do nothing to reassure people that Prince Philip Hospital is safe."

But Mr Davies hit back at the claim, labelling the attack as "baseless and
disappointing".

He added: "Not content with playing party politics with the hospital again, he
is now confusing issues to get into the paper.

"To suggest I will not speak with constituents is ridiculous - I live and work
in Llanelli, I meet local people everyday.

"I was never available to appear on CF99 that evening but if Mr Thomas thinks
the real debate about hospital services is in front of a TV camera, perhaps he's
in the wrong game.

"I want to reassure people that the health service is at the top of my agenda. I
have met on several occasions with the First Minister, the Health Minster, the
Hywel Dda Health Board and the CHC as well as the local health committee."

Mr Davies did not attend the annual general meeting of the Committee for the
Improvement of Hospital Services (CIHS) in November, or its meeting on December
9. But CIHS chairman Bryan Hitchman said the committee was not interested in "
political sniping and back stabbing".

He added: "We would like all political parties to work together for the good of
maintaining and improving services at Prince Philip."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LLS


                          Copyright 2011 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Who was this guy Fish?

BYLINE: Mark Lane

SECTION: SECTION B; Footnote; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 528  words


Dead Volusians have been lately weighing in on a surprising range of business
and civic decisions.*The 1919 will of Charles A. Young is making the closure of
S. Cornelia Young Library a complicated matter for the city of Daytona
Beach.*Florida Hospital Ormond Memorial filed suit against the heirs of John
Sterthaus over deed restrictions on a 1962 land donation.*The Bert Fish
Foundation, set up to distribute and oversee the bequests of Bert Fish after he
died in 1943, needs to sign off on a pending merger between Florida Hospital and
Bert Fish Medical Center.

Money from Fish's estate built a hospital in DeLand and a hospital wing in
Sanford. The New Smyrna Beach hospital named for Fish was built in 1954 and
deeded to the Southeast Volusia Hospital District in 1966.

So who was this Fish guy?

Fish had the most remarkable and wide-ranging political career of any Volusian.
He went from being a DeLand-based political machine boss to a master Mideast
diplomat.

He was instrumental in negotiations that kept Saudi Arabian oil flowing to the
U.S. during World War II. He did such a great job as minister to Egypt that
President Franklin Roosevelt was reluctant to let him leave.

After being a judge for the Criminal Court of Record, school system
superintendent, real-estate deal-maker, partisan of east- side/west-side
county-seat wars, and all-around fixer in Volusia County, the intricacies of
Mideast politics probably didn't seem all that difficult.

Fish and his law partner, Cary Landis, are given credit for creating "the Ring,"
a DeLand-based political combine that defined local politics from the 1910s
until the 1940s.

In the Ring's later days, News-Journal political stories often carried the words
"Ring" and "anti-Ring" after politicians' names with no other elaboration. As
though it were a political party. Which in a way it was.

The Ring sometimes was called "the Courthouse Ring." Sometimes "the Whitehair
Ring" for Francis Whitehair, the Ring's central figure. Sometimes "The
Whitehair-Fish Ring" in Fish's honor. And in Daytona Beach as "the
Fish-Whitehair-Armstrong Ring" in honor of Daytona Beach Mayor Ernest Armstrong.

Florida politics has always been chaotic and personality-driven. A working
political machine was a novelty here. "Florida is not only unbossed, it is also
unled," wrote political scientist V.O. Key in the 1940s. But he cited the Ring
as an exception.

But after Fish's early and big contributions to the Roosevelt campaign -- $5,000
back when $5,000 meant something -- Fish was launched to bigger things. After
1932, the operation in Volusia would usually be called "the Whitehair Ring"
because Fish moved on to bigger things.

H e died far from home in Lisbon, Portugal, of a heart attack at age 67. He
never married, and his estate went to his brother and community causes --
hospitals and his beloved Stetson University.

Attorney, fixer and savvy player that he was, he had been careful in arranging
his estate. That there would be strings attached and conditions applied to his
donations is no surprise.

He was not a person whose wishes could be lightly disregarded in Volusia County.
Not even more than a half century after his death.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2010 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2010 News-Journal Corporation


                              251 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                  May 13, 2007

All eyes on Monaghan hospital

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 907 words


The Monaghan Hospital alliance is shunning Fianna Fail due to inaction in the
past.

By 8.30pm last Thursday, the huge ballroom of the Hill grove Hotel in Monaghan
was packed to capacity and there was a palpable sense of anticipation.

More than 500 people had travelled to a meeting organised by the Community
Hospital Alliance to witness TDs and general election candidates sign an eight
demand pledge to support the retention of surgical services at Monaghan General
Hospital.

Everyone was represented - young and old. Everyone, that is, except the local
Fianna Fail TD and Ceann Comhairle Dr Rory O'Hanlon and Monaghan-based Fianna
Fail candidate Margaret Conlon. ''We didn't invite them," said Peadar McMahon,
the chairman of the alliance.

''What was the point? Look what they've done for the past five years." The
disgust at the Fianna Fail record on Monaghan hospital over the past five years
was clearly evident. The meeting watched a documentary made by local
schoolteachers about the five-year campaign, which showed the mounting protests
at local and national level against the gradual withdrawal of maternity and
24-hour surgical services from the hospital.

When the crowd watched the barracking that O'Hanlon received at the hands of
hospital protesters at the opening of the Monaghan by-pass last September, there
were roars of delight mixed with boos. That was followed by derision when Conlon
told the programme that Micheal Martin, the former Minister for Health, had
promised to get a CT scanner for Monaghan hospital - they're still waiting for
that.

Hospital activist and local GP Dr Illona Duffy told the meeting that the
alliance was formed before the last election as a non-political group,
representing a wide range of community interests in Monaghan.

But with the election looming, they had formed a separate political wing, called
'Your hospital, your vote'.

This has produced an eight demand charter, calling for the return of full
surgical services, a CT scanner and a full debate on the Teamwork report into
hospital services in the region.

The group asked supporters to vote only for those candidates who would sign the
charter. At the meeting, Fine Gael TD Seymour Crawford signed, and explained
that party leader Enda Kenny had written a letter of support. His Cavan-based
running mate Joe O'Reilly also signed, as did independent TD Paudge Connolly,
Caoimhghin O' Caolain of Sinn Fein, and candidates Des Cullen of the Labour
Party and Vincent PMartin of the Green Party.

To outsiders, it might have seemed obvious that the Hospital Alliance would
support Connolly, who ran on a health platform in 2002 and took Fine Gael Andrew
Boylan's seat in a big surprise. But that is clearly not the case.

The political parties are keen to point out Connolly's outsider status as an
independent. But it's also obvious that having a hospital TD for the past five
years has failed to defend the local hospital against the Health Service
Executive (HSE) decision to remove maternity services, and limit surgery to a
nine-to-five service.

All surgery requiring an overnight stay is done in Cavan, Drogheda or Dublin,
while expectant mothers face the overcrowded and understaffed unit at Our Lady
of Lourdes in Drogheda.

Connolly's record is on the line against the growing strength of Fine Gael,
while Sinn Fein has retained a high profile on the issue, linking the loss of
surgical services with the removal of rural post offices and the poor delivery
of public services in regions far from Dublin.

''Fine Gael in government will deliver 24/7 cover, and five-day surgery, with
overnight care if necessary," said Crawford, Fine Gael TD, adding that ''Fine
Gael in government will take back control of the health services'' - a reference
to the belief in the party that the HSE has too much power and too little
accountability.

Connolly, a former psychiatric nurse, told the meeting that he had consistently
raised the matter in the Dail and at the Oireachtas Health Committee before the
minister and senior HSE management, including Professor Brendan Drumm and John
O'Brien, the head of the National Hospitals Office.

''Look at the track record of people when they were in power," he said, in
reference to the political parties. Duffy described the Taoiseach's high-level
intervention to find a solution.

Bertie Ahern had organised a meeting through the Taoiseach's office between top
officials from the HSE and the Department of Health and the Hospital Alliance,
but the plan that was thrashed out was rejected by the HSE, she said.

For groups such as the Monaghan Hospital Alliance, the failure to convince
Fianna Fail that the approach to the health system recommended by the Hanly
report is wrong has pushed them into the arms of the opposition parties.

In the heat of a tightly-fought election campaign, commitments are signed and
promises are made. But if Fine Gael is to deliver on its promises to Monaghan,
it will have first of all to direct the HSE to move in a new direction, and end
plans to limit surgical services in smaller hospitals.

Dr Liam Twomey, the Fine Gael health spokesman, was elected as an independent in
Wexford on a health ticket, and he's a strong critic of the Hanly philosophy.

It will take strong political will to convince local voters to trust the HSE's
plan for better regional hospitals at the expense of their local services.

It is clear from Monaghan that people do not trust the decision makers based in
Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                                 April 27, 2008

Political row brews over plans for north-east hospital

BYLINE: Kevin Rafter, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N04

LENGTH: 290 words


A political row in the north-east is likely to intensify following indications
that plans for a super regional hospital will be replaced with a recommendation
for two new mid-sized hospitals.

The HSE has in recent weeks been examining an external consultants' report which
recommended Navan as the location for a a new regional hospital. However, it is
understood that arguments have been made for proposing two new mid-sized
hospitals in the region. The HSE, which has been examining the issue since June
2006, will require the approval of the cabinet for its final decision.

There were strong reactions from politicians in the north-east last month when
it emerged that Meath was the preferred location. Foreign affairs minister
Dermot Ahern, who is a TD for Louth, said there was "not a red cent in the
exchequer" to pay for a new regional hospital in Navan. He also predicted that
the consultants report would remain "for some time on some shelf".

The compromise could see two centres in the north-east granted a hospital
development, which would address political pressures but would also deal with
the cost implications. There are already five hospitals in the north-east -
Navan, Cavan, Monaghan, Dundalk and Drogheda.

While the HSE has been working on its plans for hospital cover in the north-east
there is, as yet, no government commitment on funding. Health minister Mary
Harney has admitted that the planned hospital was not included in the list of
capital projects in the current National Development Plan, which runs to 2013.

Speculation that Dermot Ahern may be moved to the Department of Finance in the
forthcoming cabinet reshuffle would also have implications for the location
decision as his approval on funding would be required.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                            October 30, 2015 Friday

Bilawal's guards violate hospital code of conduct

BYLINE: Noor Aftab

SECTION: Vol. 25 No. 244

LENGTH: 492  words


Making the mockery of code of conduct for the visitors, some thirty private
security guards rushed into the wards and other departments of Lady Reading
Hospital (Peshawar) when Pakistan People's Party (PPP) Chairman Bilawal Bhutto
Zardari arrived in the facility to inquire after the quake-hit people, the
sources told 'The News' here on Thursday.

Though Lady Reading Hospital has effective security arrangements within the
premises but the security guards of Bilawal Bhutto Zardari themselves took
control of the wards that were to be visited by the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf
chairman, the sources said.

The sources said the arrival of VIP figures at Lady Reading Hospital after
October 26 earthquake had become a matter of grave concern for the
administration as well as

attendants because they

were not allowed to move into certain areas that were cordoned off by the
security apparatus.

It is pertinent to mention here that those dignitaries who have so far visited
Lady Reading Hospital after October 26 earthquake included Pakistan
Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan, his wife Reham Khan, KP Chief
Minister Pervaiz Khattak, Speaker KP Assembly Asad Qaiser and others.

A senior official of Lady Reading Hospital confided to this correspondent that
it was really awkward to see that political figures visited wards with large
groups of people and most of whom started taking photographs of patients and
their leaders.

It is quite unethical to come and start taking photographs and selfies without
giving any serious thought to decorum of the hospital. The hospital
administration even gives them briefing in the wards despite the fact that all
details and updates about injured people are provided through media and
websites, he said.

When contacted, KP Health Minister Shahram Khan Tarakai told The News when
private security guards of the PPP chairman entered into the wards, the
administration never stopped them to avoid any unwanted situation.

There were some thirty private security guards who accompanied Bilawal Bhutto
Zardari during his visit to Lady Reading Hospital. It is beyond doubt that there
are security threats to the political figures in the country but it is not
ethical to bring private guards into the wards of the hospitals, he said.

Shahram Khan said there was a code of conduct in the hospital but unfortunately
the political elites never followed it, adding,

If the hospital administration stops the security

guards of the political elites, they can start leveling allegations against the
KP government.

To a question, he said Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf Chairman Imran Khan and his wife
Reham Khan also separately visited the hospital but the hospital administration
itself made arrangements for their security.

To another question, he said the politicians and other people who wanted to
visit Lady Reading Hospital were requested to follow the code of conduct to
ensure no problem was created for the patients and the staff members.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 6, 2011
                                 First Edition

Hospital services need radical change, says think-tank;
NHS

BYLINE: Jeremy Laurance

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 285 words


NHS hospital services in England need a radical reorganisation to secure the
safety of patients and the financial viability of NHS trusts, but it is being
blocked for political reasons, a leading health think tank says in a report
released today.

The Kings Fund says there are too many hospitals providing too many of the same
services and chasing too few patients to maintain standards. But a "major
stumbling block" in many hospital re-configurations is public concern and
political opposition. Yesterday i revealed that Imperial College Healthcare NHS
Trust was facing a £100m deficit and was considering closing St Mary's Hospital,
Paddington, and moving its services to Hammersmith Hospital. The trust denied
yesterday that it was closing the hospital, but one of three sources used for
our story told us that the proposal was being "openly canvassed".

The Kings Fund's report comes as the bitterly contested Health and Social Care
Bill returns to the Commons amid a growing rebellion among Liberal Democrats.

The Kings Fund calls for further changes to the NHS bill to "depoliticise" the
closure of hospitals by removing the Health Secretary's responsibility to make
the final decision and passing it to an independent body.

Experts said further hospital closures were essential. Richard Thompson, the
president of the Royal College of Physicians, said there was an "urgent need" to
reconfigure acute services, to drive up quality and contain costs.

Peter Carter, the chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, called for an
end to the political taboo on hospital closures.

"In our metropolitan areas we have far too many acute hospitals," he said.
"That's a drain on the system and it has got to change."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 13, 2001, Tuesday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2118 words


One Nation alive and well

Which political party has as part of its health policy the return of public
hospital boards that will restore control to local communities and encourage
community involvement in the provision of auxiliary service?

Which political party urges the reduction of management positions in hospitals
and a return to the emphasis on patient care as the primary function of
hospitals?

Which political party will push for the re-establishment of the training of
registered nurses in teaching hospitals?

Which political party supports the right of Medicare-dependent patients to be
reimbursed for services by State-registered professionals such as chiropractors
and osteopaths?

Which political party? The party that achieved close to 10 per cent statewide
and 20 per cent in the bush of the primary vote at Saturday's West Australian
election, Pauline Hanson's One Nation.

For those shaking their heads at the so-called resurrection of Pauline Hanson
and One Nation, there is no mystery. The party was always there, working hard,
consolidating, growing. It only appeared dead in the water because the media and
corporate interests decided that's how it should appear.

The major parties ceased to serve the people a long time ago. Roll on next
Saturday.

Therese Mackay,

Port Macquarie

Why do they bother? Every political pundit, pollster, prognosticator and
purveyor of political prescience told us the West Australia election was going
to be a close-run affair and too close to call.

The result? A mini-landslide of 16 or 17 seats to Labor, courtesy of One Nation.
Can anyone recall when a poll got anywhere close to predicting the real result?

Paul Ford,

Currumbin Waters,

Queensland

Is it true that the West Australian Labor Party will hold a celebration party
with One Nation voters? People are saying that without One Nation support, the
ALP would not have gained office. Some people in government have a lot to learn
about the expression: "Whatever it takes."

Kathryn Pollard O'Hara,

Lismore

It is high time the electoral system is changed to allow fair and democratic
parliamentary representation. In the previous federal election, One Nation
polled over a million direct votes yet only got one person into Parliament.
Assuming 10 million people have the right to vote, this means One Nation
received about 10 per cent of the vote but only 0.5 per cent representation.

In Saturday's West Australian election, One Nation again polled about 10 per
cent and is expected to gain up to three seats in Parliament, but this does not
reflect the desires of those who voted for the party.

How can this be called democratic? The system is rigged so that preferences
always flow to the two main parties in the end, thus guaranteeing to put one of
them into power.

There is only one solution -- the eradication of preferential voting. Electors
should vote for the person they desire as their representative and nobody else.

Ziggy Malter, Dural

You would never know this from watching the Hanson-obsessed mainstream media,
but those tree-hugging, bleeding-heart hippie socialists, The Greens, got more
votes in Western Australia

at the weekend than One Nation did.

Caroline Toomey, Newtown

With the Liberals' loss in Western Australia and with the coming election in
Queensland, Prime Minister John Howard and Treasurer Peter Costello should
rethink what they are doing to Australia through the GST, BAS and fuel excise.

These intelligent politicians should consider the consequences and be prepared
to make concessions to the public in general. While ever they remain stubborn,
they face the possibility of being dumped at the next election.

Disgruntled voters are watching the State elections; they will weigh up the pros
and cons.

Terry Swan, Mt Druitt

There is a strong message for NSW Transport Minister Carl Scully in Saturday's
election in Western Australia. The message is, focus on what is important to the
people of regional, rural and remote NSW and not what interests you or your
department.

The ordinary Australians who live west of the sandstone curtain have had rail
infrastructure removed for 20 years. We want some of our rural lines --
Greenethorpe to Grenfell and Cowra to Eugowra -- reopened, as well as a public
transport development officer placed in the Central West region to co-ordinate
transport.

Greg Standen, Bathurst

Awash in a sea of plastic

In a 500m walk along the Botany Bay foreshore between Kyeemagh and
Brighton-Le-Sands on Sunday, I picked up 132 plastic bottles.

Regrettably, I didn't have a rubbish bag with me and there wasn't a rubbish bin
in sight, so I threw them into the sand dunes. Better there than on the beach or
in the sea, where they are a hazard to marine life. I might get to pick them up
again when I volunteer for Clean Up Australia in their annual effort in March.
No doubt there will be at least 132 more bottles to pick up.

Plastic drink bottles have been a major environmental hazard worldwide for 20
years. Despite all the lobbying, it would appear we have not learned much. Clean
Up The World and Clean Up Australia are all very well, but sometimes these
clean-ups appear to be like closing the stable door after the horse has made a
run for it. They reveal appalling evidence of our inability to change and clean
the way for the next wave of trash.

However, I will do my best never to buy a drink packaged in plastic again.

Mauve McCormack,

Burwood

Addicts fill the vacuum

We read that drug users in the Cabramatta area risk instant arrest and jail
(Daily Telegraph, February 9). What a joke. The police are always in full force
as soon as a reporter is in Cabramatta, but everyone knows that as soon as the
media leave, so do the police. The area is full of drug addicts every day; no
one is there to stop them so why would they not keep coming back? My mother has
lived there all her life and now cannot even sit on the bus shelter seat because
of drug addicts lying on them. They shoot up anywhere and blatantly in front of
anyone. This has been going on for many a year. One reason for lack of action is
that once offenders are taken to court they are given only small fines.

I do not believe we will see 90 officers in the Cabramatta region arresting drug
users on a regular basis. It is just another promise to keep everyone quiet for
a while.

Tracey Cather, St Clair

The number of police on long-term sick leave illustrates the poor health of the
NSW Police Service in general. It is one of the few alternatives available to
police to combat the unreasonable pressures they face in the execution of their
duties. The bandwagon that culminated in the Wood Royal Commission has a lot to
answer for, and the Government misjudged the will of the people by implementing
its recommendations. The result? The next time you call for police, be safe in
the knowledge that the constables who arrive are more worried about getting a
complaint than they are about investigating a crime. The criminals are laughing,
experienced police are resigning, the rest go off sick and the public gets a
third-rate service.

Jim Anderson, Darwin

Smokers paying a high enough price

Should smokers be denied public medical treatment? Yes and no.

They should not be refused assistance as punishment for their habit. It is
harder for some people to make prudent decisions than others, because of genetic
and environmental factors. Furthermore, many people take up smoking when young
and find it hard to quit.

Smokers are not necessarily -- even on average -- morally worse people than
non-smokers. And even if they are, isn't the combination of poorer health and
shorter lifespan that they tend to experience itself

a high enough price to pay?

The special taxes that smokers pay can be used to cover any exceptional medical
expenses they incur.

When smoking becomes relevant is that "capacity to benefit" is one legitimate
criterion when allocating scarce medical resources. If an individual's smoking
(or other behaviour, or simply his/her medical condition) makes him/her less
likely to benefit from treatment it is, all else being equal, reasonable for
doctors to give a higher priority to other patients.

Brent Howard, Rydalmere

Media reports make it worse

I was privileged to serve as a member of the teaching staff at Trinity Grammar
for 15 years, the last five of which were under the inspiring leadership of Mr
Milton Cujes.

It is an absolutely magnificent school, with an extremely dedicated, highly
professional staff and a great bunch of lads. There is a very strong pastoral
care program in place, with each boy assigned to a benevolent housemaster who
will move heaven and earth to ensure that his charges are given a fair go.

The headmaster has a particular abhorrence of bullying and does all that is
humanly possible to prevent its occurrence, reminding the boys frequently of the
severe penalties lying in wait for perpetrators. The school, however, is not run
as a police state and some crime will, inevitably, go undetected.

Certainly the recent publicised events are of an extremely unsavoury nature and
the victims have been severely wronged. Unfortunately, the distress resulting
from this affair has been multiplied a thousandfold by the sensationalised media
coverage which has effectively converted all students at the school into targets
for ridicule, directed at them by the vast number of non-Trinity bullies out
there in the community.

Gerard Dixon, Ashfield

Excise line runs

back to Labor

The Federal Labor Party is trying to make a virtue out of opposing the
implementaton of legislation it enacted.

In 1983 the Federal Labor Government introduced excise duty indexation linked to
the CPI. While Labor was in government between 1983 and 1996, the petrol excise
was increased from 6.155c a litre to 34.183c/l. Now, in Opposition, Labor is
opposing the February indexation increase.

Is Labor promising to cancel petrol excise indexation? No. Is it promising to
roll back GST on petrol prices? No.

Remember, all GST goes to the States. Remember, on July 1, 2000, the Federal
Government reduced the excise on petrol and diesel by about 6.7c/l to offset the
effect of the GST. Australia has no control over the world crude oil price,
which increased from $US12 a barrel in February 1999 to $US32 a barrel in August
2000.

Martin Wellington,

St Huberts Island

Ignore the noise,

enjoy the view

Complaints about flight paths remind one of all the whingeing before the Olympic
Games, particularly by Bondi residents concerning the volleyball stadium. But
what a stunning show Sydney put on come the day.

Sydney is a world-class city and needs a first-class airport. London has had the
flight-path problem for years -- even the Queen has to put up with the noise at
Windsor Castle and Buckingham Palace.

Londoners take it in their stride and air passengers see fantastic views of the
London scene below them -- as they also see the unforgettable views of Sydney.

Peter Hutson, Potts Point

e-talk

Prime Minister John Howard's response to the defeat of the West Australian
Government was entirely predictable. He blamed it on local State issues. The
Democrats' Meg Lees said that the WA voters did not know what they were doing
and could not read how-to-vote cards. Both are divorced from reality. Excise tax
on top of excise tax, with a GST on top of that, gets up everyone's nose every
time they have a beer, fill up the car or just walk into

a store.

Mike Barnes, Bega

Miranda Devine (Daily Telegraph, February 7) has given us an excellent example
of the discriminatory attitudes that many people with hepatitis C face.
Discrimination against people with hepatitis C is illegal. I take offence at her
implication that discrimination is acceptable and expected. I wonder whether Ms
Devine's piece will be used as evidence in the forthcoming inquiry.

Melanie Costello, Manly

The idea of introducing a T-style plate to identify tourists on our roads has
merit. In Europe, a similar scheme has been operating for about 75 years, where
the driver of a vehicle displays a decal showing the flag of the country from
which the driver originates, together with the first letter of that country. The
extra courtesy afforded drivers so identified is automatic.

Michael Kiff, Carramar

Critics of the MA classification for the upcoming film Hannibal have clearly not
seen the film, which opens tomorrow night for preview screenings and has only
been seen by a few members of the press so far. Films should only be criticised
once the source material has actually been seen.

Mark Beirne, Rose Bay

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2001 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              256 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 20, 2005, Tuesday

Howard banned as health hazard

BYLINE: Angus Macleod, Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 23

LENGTH: 326 words


A BY-ELECTION campaign visit to Glasgow yesterday by Michael Howard was
overshadowed when he was barred from a hospital.

The Conservative leader was lending his support to Richard Cook, the party's
candidate for the Scottish Parliament seat of Glasgow Cathcart, in the by
election called after the resignation of Lord Watson of Invergowrie, the Labour
peer who admitted fire-raising.

Mr Howard and Mr Cook met campaigners outside the city's Victoria Infirmary,
which is to lose its accident and emergency capacity in a reorganisation of
local hospital services. The pair had asked to be allowed inside the hospital
but were turned down by NHS Greater Glasgow, leaving Mr Howard outraged.

He said: "I went into hospitals during the general election campaign and Tony
Blair went into hospitals during the general election campaign. There is no such
thing as an election purdah for people visiting hospitals and it is an outrage
that the Glasgow NHS has said that I am not to be allowed to go into that
hospital this morning."

NHS Greater Glasgow said that the health board had decided to exclude all
candidates from the hospital during the by-election campaign to save disruption
to patients and staff.

Lorraine Dick, the board's spokeswoman, said that the board was keeping to its
tradition of "purdah" -the rules governing conduct by the hospital during
parliamentary elections.

"We have declined a number of requests from by-election candidates to make a
visit to the hospital part of their election campaigns," she said. "Visits to
the hospital take up a great deal of time for the clinical staff members
involved."

Ms Dick added that while the hospital understood that the intention of
candidates was not to disrupt patient care, the staff time taken up inevitably
did affect services.

"In accordance with purdah guidance, if we agree to facilitate a visit by one
political party then we must offer this to all."


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited


                              257 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Political stunt backfires on poor patients

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 552  words


Vashi: Stating that the local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has been
levelling 'baseless' allegations against the working in NMMC hospital at Vashi
for its personal gains, standing committee member and corporator Vikram Shinde
said BJP leaders are indulging in unfair practices for 'personal gains'.

"This is a political stunt, which is not only affecting the working at the
hospital, but also sending out wrong messages to patients who come to avail
services," Shinde said.

BJP leaders have accused doctors at the hospital of demanding money from
patients to carry out operations which, according to them, is against the set
rules.

This practice, the party said, has been going on for the years, and civic
authorities have failed to take action against culprits. The issue also cropped
up at NMMC standing committee meeting held last week where Shinde defended the
doctors saying the specialists, not on NMMC panel, are called by the hospital
authorities to treat critical patients. They bring their own apparatus and other
clinical equipment which are not available at the NMMC facility.

The money collected from the patient is paid as charges to the practitioner for
his services. In the wake of these allegations, specialist doctors have
reportedly refused to come to the NMMC hospital, putting authorities in a fix.

"There is absolutely no truth in these allegations... the hospital is providing
best services to poor and at a minimal rates. It is true that some doctors, who
are not on NMMC's panel, have refused to render their services, but we have
requested them to re-consider their decision. If they agree, they are
contributing to the betterment of the needy who come to here for treatment,"
said Shinde, also the former chairman of the health committee.

Commenting on what the patient Sanjay Mandal said about paying Rs13,000 for a
urine stone surgery and getting a 'kachchi' receipt, Shinde said doctors
attending Mandal told him thrice that he will be operated upon by a specialist
and will have to pay money.

"It is only after his consent that the specialist was called to perform the
surgery. Also, Mandal has given in writing to the hospital authorities that he
was okay with the hospital charging him for the operation," Shinde said.

He added that the 'political stunt' of BJP leaders will bear no fruits since by
indulging in such acts, they are only meting out injustice to poor patients.

General secretary of Navi Mumbai BJP unit Santosh Pachlag said, "We came to know
about the incident and highlighted. The hospital authorities agreed in front of
the media that the doctor had taken money. We requested them to conduct a
detailed enquiry and punish the culprits. So, where is the political stunt in
that? It is the duty of a political party to raise any issue concerning the
common people."

A senior NMMC official said BJP leaders had given a letter to them requesting to
stop taking services of specialists. "We stopped this practice temporarily as it
is not compulsory for specialist doctors to give services to the civic facility.
These allegations not only maligned the image of the hospital, but also the
NMMC," he said.

When asked whether specialist doctors 'refusing' to treat patients at the civic
facility has affected the day-to-day working, the official said work is going on
as usual.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 March 22, 2005

'Do not scupper flagship hospital'

SECTION: News; Politics; MPs; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words


By Ian Onions Political Editor "mailto:i.onions@bepp.co.uk"
class="lblue">i.onions@bepp.co.uk TWO MPs have been warned that continued
political posturing could scupper Bristol's chances of a brand new flagship
superhospital for the city.

The sideswipe was made by Dr Doug Naysmith at his Labour colleague Kingswood MP
Roger Berry, who has linked up with political opponent Liberal Democrat Steve
Webb to fight plans for the acute hospital at Southmead instead of Frenchay.

Dr Naysmith, Labour MP for Bristol North West, said the new £280 million
hospital could suffer from "supertram syndrome" - a major scheme for Bristol
that was lost because it became embroiled in politics.

Dr Naysmith said: "I don't blame Roger Berry for what he is doing. I'm sure he
believes he is looking after the best interests of the people in his
constituency.

"But on such big issues as this, it is important to see how it affects the whole
of the city, not just one part.

"The Evening Post has often pointed out how the people of Bristol and the
surrounding area have suffered because local politicians do not want to make
decisions.

"The fiasco of the tram was a case in point. While Bristol and South
Gloucestershire argued over the route, our chance for a decent transport system
was lost. It nearly happened again when the Liberal Democrats dithered over the
site for the new school in Redland.

"What worries me now is that the people of Bristol and South Gloucestershire
will have to wait even longer for their new hospitals, while spurious arguments
are put up for political reasons.

"We do not need more inquiries, more arguments, more political flag-waving.

"We need all the new Community Hospitals and we need the new acute hospital at
Southmead." When asked if he would take a different view if the body of opinion
was in favour of building a new acute hospital at Frenchay instead of Southmead,
which is used by many of the people in his constituency, Dr Naysmith said: "I
like to think that I would have the guts to do what is right for the Bristol
area as a whole." Dr Berry and Mr Webb have tabled a parliamentary motion which
notes the "flawed decision-making process" used by executives drawing up the
Bristol Health Services Plan.

Mr Webb has branded the public consultation process carried out by the North
Bristol NHS Trust as "pathetic" after it received 351 written replies while his
own survey received 8,000.

Deborah Evans, chief executive of Bristol South and West Primary Care Trust, who
chaired the consultation process, said it was the largest one they had ever held
about health services in the area.

Four of the six trusts in Bristol and South Gloucestershire have voted in favour
of the plan to build the superhospital at Southmead, while the United Bristol
Healthcare Trust, which runs the Bristol Royal Infirmary, abstained, and South
Gloucestershire Primary Care Trust backed Frenchay.

Mr Berry said: "Many of my constituents use Frenchay, Southmead and the BRI but
at present they do not provide a full range of acute services. Therefore, if you
go to one, you might then be transferred to another.

"Doug, myself and Steve Webb are agreed on this issue that the present
configuration has to be improved.  The difference is that I believe in the
Frenchay location because of the current population distribution and the areas
of population growth."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005 2203BRISEP272Tdono

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


                              259 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Dorking and Leatherhead Advertiser

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Petition launched to save hospital

BYLINE: Alexander Robertson alexander.robertson@essnmedia.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 427  words


A PETITION aimed at saving Leatherhead Community Hospital from potential closure
or loss of services has been launched by the district's Liberal Democrats.

Surrey Downs Clinical Commissioning Group, which is responsible for healthcare
in Mole Valley, is currently reviewing the Poplar Road facility as part of a
district-wide services assessment.

More than 500 people have already signed the petition - launched online last
week - calling for the hospital's future to be safeguarded amid fears it could
close permanently after health bosses refused to rule anything out at a meeting
earlier this year.

Paul Kennedy, Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate for Mole Valley, told the
Advertiser the threat to Leatherhead Hospital was "very real".

"It's imperative that residents let the authorities know how important it is for
Leatherhead and its surrounding villages to keep its community hospital," he
said.

"We are overwhelmed by the public response to our petition which demonstrates
how vital it is for the people of Leatherhead, Ashtead, Fetcham, Bookham and
beyond to retain access to high quality and accessible local NHS services."

"The petition wording is non-political, reflecting the concerns of the whole
community. We are getting plenty of support from supporters of all political
parties in Mole Valley."

The petition comes four months after the hospital's Leach Ward was closed and
all of its 15 inpatient beds taken out of use due to a shortage of nurses.

At the time, the move was described as a temporary measure until the end of
March. However, the ward will now remain closed until the completion of the
group's review in July. Funds raised by the League of Friends of Leatherhead
Hospital for a new X-ray department, at a cost of £500,000, are currently being
held back by trustees until the facility's future becomes clear.

The new petition calls for the reopening of Leach Ward and the continuation of
outpatient services at Leatherhead Hospital, to include expanded diagnostic
services.

It further appeals for "proper funding and staffing" of the hospital in order to
prevent future nursing shortages.

Mole Valley district councillor Bridget Lewis-Carr (Lib Dem, Leatherhead North)
said: "Leatherhead Hospital is a vital part of our life, serving the whole
community.

"So many members of the public have been treated here for a wide range of
reasons."

Among the services currently carried out at the facility are physiotherapy,
speech and language, continence and occupational therapy.

To sign the online petition, visit www.molevalleylibdems. org.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIGHT: Parliamentary candidate Paul Kennedy, second from the right, is
among those supporting the petition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday

BADIN CIVIL HOSPITAL NEEDS GOVT ATTENTION

BYLINE: Sawan Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. 27 No. 12

LENGTH: 460  words


The Civil Hospital, Badin, needs attention of the government for improvement in
delivery of services. The poor patients are compelled to purchase the essentials
medicines from private medical stores.

It is an astonishing to hear that mostly government medicines are being sold to
the some private stores. On the other hand, the shortage of special doctors
including general surgeon, orthopaedics, ENT, skin, physician, ultrasound
specialists and others are required and latest equipments according to need of
the modern age are not meet in the hospital.

Talking to doctors and specialists of the hospital, they told that they were
feeling unfriendly and non-academic environment with heavy burden.

Three months earlier, with the huge efforts of Dr. Sikander Ali Mandhro,
provincial minister, Chief Minister Syed Qaim Ali Shah had issued a notification
to handover the Civil Hospital to Indus Hospital Management but like so many
other notifications and announcements of the rulers, this important decision
could not be implemented. Civil society including representatives of social,
political, and religious through the All Parties Conference (APC) held at Badin
passed a resolution to hand over the Civil Hospital, Badin, to management of
Indus Hospital.

Representatives of civil society are still holding protests and sit-in against
the delay to handing over the hospital management to Indus Hospital. Sardar
Kamal Khan Chang, MNA, and senior leader of PPP told Pakistan Observer that he
had no knowledge about the budget issue of hospital and he would ask the Medical
Superintendent (MS) regarding the budget issues.

It is a good decision to hand over the hospital to Indus Hospital which can
provide standard and quality services and the shortage of the doctors would also
made less or end, he added.

He expressed that medicines are available and added that there all essential
medicines at the hospital. Khalifo Tariq Aziz Memon, said that lack of
facilities in Badin civil hospital disappoints the poor people. He said that
health department and Civil Hospital management must improve facilities in its
hospital and should hand over the hospital to Indus Hospital. All government
hospitals should have at least the basic facilities to cater emergency needs of
patients, he added.

The people of Badin and representatives of civil society and political parties
including Tahir Ahmed Shah, Haji Ahmed Ghanchi, Manzoor Arisar, Shafi Mohammad
Dal and others demanded of the Sindh Chief Minister, Syed Qaim Ali Shah,
Governor Dr Ishratul Ibad Khan and the Health Minister Dr Jam Mehtab Daharto
take efforts for improving the health services and ensure to handing over the
Civil hospital Badin to Indus Hospital management on urgent basis in the larger
public interest.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 28, 2009 Friday

Lib Dems would force hospitals to match lowest operation tariff

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words


All hospitals would be forced to reduce the costs of operations to the lowest
tariff in the country under controversial plans by the Liberal Democrats to cut
waste in the public services.

As Britain prepares for the tightest spending round in a generation, the Lib Dem
leader, Nick Clegg, today outlines plans to rein in hospital trusts that are
using their monopoly position to drive up costs. The plan, announced in a
Guardian interview, will be seen as one of the most radical ideas of any of the
main political parties to save money.

Under the Lib Dem plan, hospital trusts would be forced to charge the same rate
for operations as the cheapest and most efficient hospitals in the country.

Clegg said: "It is a very specific but rather radical idea, of saying that all
hospital tariffs under the 'payment by results' system should match the most
efficient tariffs in the hospital system. We think that would save about £2bn a
year."

Clegg admitted this would be controversial because many hospitals would say they
could not compete with those that reduced costs by performing many more
procedures. He said the policy would be flexible and standards would not suffer.
"There has to be suppleness in it," Clegg said. "We are not going to be stupid
about it."

But it was important that the most "cost-effective tariff", which guaranteed
clinical standards, should be the benchmark. "The hospital trusts are in a very,
very powerful negotiating position because they are basically, not withstanding
a few little treatment centres here and there, operating as a monopoly. The
primary care trusts (which commission treatment) have got very little leverage."

Savings from the new system would be reallocated to other areas of the NHS.
Clegg said: "I hear day in, day out, people say, 'This is frigging ridiculous,
we are wasting ridiculous amounts of money on a strategic health authority that
shouldn't exist.'" Clegg today launches a website - nickclegg.com/intheknow -
where public-sector workers can submit other ideas on how to save money.

£2 bn

The amount that the Liberal Democrat leader believes his plan for centrally-set
charges would save the NHS each year

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 August 9, 2017

Indore: Cong leaders, activists clash with cops after stopped from meeting
Patkar

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 522  words


Indore: Amid chaos due to clashes between police and visitors from a spectrum of
political parties and social organisations, Bombay Hospital administration on
Tuesday claimed that health conditions of NBA chief Medha Patkar have improved
and she is recovering well.

However, the hospital administration refused to comment on her hunger strike and
said that they were providing all the necessary medical treatments to Patkar.

Patkar was forcibly removed from the dharna site at Chikhalda village and
admitted to the Bombay Hospital on Monday after her health condition
deteriorated on the 12th day of hunger strike, demanding proper rehabilitation
of Sardar Sarovar Dam oustees from the government.

Meanwhile, government has deployed a heavy police force at the hospital, which
didn't allow any visitor, activist or political party leader to meet Patkar in
her room and faced their ire throughout the day.

Large number of NBA activists and Congress leaders, including Sajjan Singh Verma
and Pramod Tondon and Paras Saklecha were stopped by the police from meeting the
fiery NBA leader.

A chaos ensued, when Kukshi MLA Surendra Singh Baghel was not allowed to meet
Patkar by the police. After heated exchange of words for quite a long time,
Baghel and CSP Vijay Nagar, Jayant Rathore involved into a brawl with each
other, in which the MLA was manhandled by other cops.

"I was manhandled by the cops when I was requesting them to let me meet the NBA
chief. Later, cops took me to the gate of ICU, but didn't allow me to enter
despite Patkar calling me inside," he said.

Baghel alleged that "Though Patkar's health condition has improved the
government has illegally detained her in the hospital to restrain her from
leading the protest against their anti-people actions."

Apart from Baghel, the Congress leaders and other activists too clashed with the
cops in their attempt to meet the NBA chief. Clearing the hospital's stand,
general manager (administration) Rahul Parashar said "We are not allowing anyone
to meet Patkar except her two attendants, as she is admitted in ICU and under
observation. Let alone Patkar, we do not even allow anyone to meet a normal
patient in ICU."

Taking about her health, Parashar said that she is recovering well but still
under observation.

Activist detained for two hours

An activist of 'Ghar Bachao, Ghar Banao Andolan', Bilal Khan was detained for
two hours by cops deployed at Bombay Hospital. Activists of NBA alleged that
Bilal was kidnapped by the cops and was released after two hours. "I was
detained by the police in the hospital and later in Lasudia police station. Cops
let me off only after taking an undertaking from me. My fault was that I was
requesting them to allow me to meet Patkar," Bilal said. A large number of
social activists condemned the detention by police.

4 NBA activists recovering well at MYH

Administration of MY Hospital, Dr Sharad Thora said that four activists of NBA,
who were admitted to the hospital on Monday night, are recovering well. He said
that they will be discharged from the hospital soon. Those admitted in MY
Hospital are: Nirmala, Muskan, Nehamati and Shankar.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday

Support grows for children's hospital on greenfield site

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 399 words


THERE is growing political momentum backing a national children's hospital on a
greenfield site.

Social Protection Minister Joan Burton has admitted there is an increasing
preference for locating the new hospital outside of the city centre.

Ms Burton was speaking after the Irish Independent yesterday revealed Health
Minister James Reilly was seriously considering a massive new EUR1.2bn medical
hub with the children's hospital and a relocated Beaumont Hospital at its core.

The site, including a possible DART link, business park and education centre,
would be situated near Dublin Airport and the junction of the M50 and M1
motorways.

Limbo

Ms Burton said there was now a strong feeling in favour of having the hospital
away from the city centre. However, she is promoting Connolly Hospital in
Blanchardstown, in her own Dublin West constituency.

Other sources also said the review group examining where to put the hospital had
been encouraged to look away from city centre sites and go "outside the box".

The children's hospital has been in limbo since a high-rise scheme for the Mater
Hospital was shot down by An Bord Pleanala. The Mater has submitted revised
plans, but this site has been described as "not politically popular".

Speaking in her constituency yesterday, Ms Burton said the review group headed
up by Dr Frank Dolphin had yet to examine all options.

But she added: "There has always been a strong body of opinion right across
political parties that a site somewhere on the periphery of Dublin has a lot of
advantages.

"The most important interest in this is the children and the parents of the
children who are ill, that they get in and out to a first-class facility."

She pointed out that her local hospital, Connolly Hospital in Blanchardstown,
had also made a bid. It is one of up to 50 possible sites -- some being offered
for free -- which have been put forward as locations, with offers coming from
hospitals, landowners, NAMA and local authorities.

The Department of Health has refused to release the list of submissions. The
locations of just 25 of these sites are publicly known. While some are already
in public ownership, others are being offered by private land owners free of
charge.

Elsewhere five other adult hospitals, St James's, Beaumont, The Coombe and
Connolly and Tallaght hospitals have submitted plans to build the children's
hospital on adjoining sites.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday

Support grows for children's hospital on greenfield site

SECTION:

LENGTH: 399 words


THERE is growing political momentum backing a national children's hospital on a
greenfield site.

Social Protection Minister Joan Burton has admitted there is an increasing
preference for locating the new hospital outside of the city centre.

Ms Burton was speaking after the Irish Independent yesterday revealed Health
Minister James Reilly was seriously considering a massive new EUR1.2bn medical
hub with the children's hospital and a relocated Beaumont Hospital at its core.

The site, including a possible DART link, business park and education centre,
would be situated near Dublin Airport and the junction of the M50 and M1
motorways.

Limbo

Ms Burton said there was now a strong feeling in favour of having the hospital
away from the city centre. However, she is promoting Connolly Hospital in
Blanchardstown, in her own Dublin West constituency.

Other sources also said the review group examining where to put the hospital had
been encouraged to look away from city centre sites and go "outside the box".

The children's hospital has been in limbo since a high-rise scheme for the Mater
Hospital was shot down by An Bord Pleanala. The Mater has submitted revised
plans, but this site has been described as "not politically popular".

Speaking in her constituency yesterday, Ms Burton said the review group headed
up by Dr Frank Dolphin had yet to examine all options.

But she added: "There has always been a strong body of opinion right across
political parties that a site somewhere on the periphery of Dublin has a lot of
advantages.

"The most important interest in this is the children and the parents of the
children who are ill, that they get in and out to a first-class facility."

She pointed out that her local hospital, Connolly Hospital in Blanchardstown,
had also made a bid. It is one of up to 50 possible sites -- some being offered
for free -- which have been put forward as locations, with offers coming from
hospitals, landowners, NAMA and local authorities.

The Department of Health has refused to release the list of submissions. The
locations of just 25 of these sites are publicly known. While some are already
in public ownership, others are being offered by private land owners free of
charge.

Elsewhere five other adult hospitals, St James's, Beaumont, The Coombe and
Connolly and Tallaght hospitals have submitted plans to build the children's
hospital on adjoining sites.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             August 29, 2016 Monday

Govt focusing on improving health facilities in tribal areas: Amir Khattak

SECTION: Vol. 39 No. 240

LENGTH: 273  words


Political Agent Bajaur Agency Abdul Amir Khattak has said the federal government
is focusing on improving health facilities in the tribal areas and huge funds
are being spent for the purpose.

He was speaking to the patients and their attendants during his supervise visit
to the Agency Headquarters Hospital in Khar.

The Political Agent said that provision of basic health service was the
responsibility of the government and all possible means are being used to ensure
basic and standard health facilities to the people of Bajaur Agency.

He said that the federal government has accelerated its efforts to provide
health facilities to the people who living in remote and hilly areas of the
tribal areas.

On the occasion, the patients and the people informed the political agent about
the problems and needs at the hospital.

The political agent also took serious notice of the doctors for refusing to
treat the victims of the dog bit at the hospital.

He also expressed his dismay over the unavailability of anti-rabies vaccine at
the agency headquarters hospital and others health units.

During the visit, the Political Agent also met with Agency Surgeon

Dr Wazir Khan Safi and others senior officials of the local health department.

The health officials told the Political Agent that there was no

shortage of anti-rabies vaccine and other facilities in the Agency Headquarters
Hospital.

The political agent asked the health officials to speed up their activities to
ensure basic and modern health facilities to the people of agency.

He also advised the officials to take action against the doctors and other
staffs whose efficiency are not satisfactory.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           September 18, 2009 Friday
                             o - SA Country Edition

Health ads investigation gets political

BYLINE: Pia Akerman

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 404 words


THE chief of South Australia's Health Department has been forced to defend
taxpayer-funded advertising spruiking the Rann government's controversial new
city hospital plan against claims it is a misuse of public funds.

Called before a parliamentary committee investigating political advertising
yesterday, Tony Sherbon said the ads were designed to be purely informative and
non-partisan, despite the fact the proposed new Royal Adelaide Hospital has been
declared a key issue for the election next March.

Renovating the hospital on its current site is a firm Liberal policy, while the
government would build a $1.7 billion hospital on dilapidated railyards in the
CBD's west.

Committee chairman and Greens MP Mark Parnell asked whether Dr Sherbon had any
concerns about weighing in ``on one side of what was, clearly, a political
debate in the community''.

``The campaign was in no way designed to present a partisan political point of
view,'' Dr Sherbon said. ``It was simply designed to present the thinking behind
a government decision based on advice from government officials.

``We were not seeking behaviour or opinion change in this particular campaign.
We were seeking to provide information.''

The campaign is one of five under investigation by the Auditor-General to
determine whether it was approved according to strict guidelines.

Dr Sherbon said the Health Department had a budget of $2.2 million for an
advertising campaign -- the bulk destined for ads promoting the new hospital --
from June 2006 to July next year. Of that, $680,000 is outlined for 2009-10,
including the crucial months before the election.

The government's own advertising guidelines state that public funds should not
be used for communications where ``a reasonable person could misinterpret the
message as being on behalf of a political party''.

``There was no involvement of party political representatives or personnel in
any of the campaign development, apart from, of course, ministerial staff
interaction, and there was no involvement of party political representatives in
the final advertising delivery,'' Dr Sherbon said.

But Mr Parnell later said Dr Sherbon's evidence had reinforced that the ads were
serving a political purpose.

``Telling us that the government is right and the opposition is wrong --
effectively what those ads were doing -- years out from the first sod even being
turned, is a misuse of public funds,'' Mr Parnell said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                        May 22, 1998, Friday, Edition 1

OTTAWA HOSPITAL CHIEF UNITING QUEBECERS

BYLINE: Sandro Contenta

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 861 words


David Levine's right to the job defended by all

 MONTREAL BUREAU
 MONTREAL - What David Levine failed to do as a Parti Quebecois
 candidate 19 years ago, he seems to have achieved today: build
 bridges between anglophones and francophones in Quebec.
 The controversy surrounding his appointment as head of an
 amalgamated Ottawa hospital has seen Quebecers of all political
 stripes defend his right to a job no matter what his beliefs on
 Quebec sovereignty.
 It's the kind of consensus that rarely occurs in a province where
 public debate often splits along sovereignist and federalist
 lines.
 Those divisions were sharper than ever when Levine, 50, decided
 to run as the PQ candidate in the 1979 by-election in
 D'Arcy-McGee, a federalist bastion in Montreal.
 Quebec's anglophone community had yet to absorb the shock of the
 first PQ election victory in 1976 and the province was only a
 year away from the 1980 referendum.
 Ed Bantey, who ran Levine's campaign, recalls that PQ canvassers
 were physically kicked out of apartment buildings'' when they
 tried to drop off flyers.
 It certainly wasn't a political career he was embarking on'Henry Milner
 Queen's political scientist


 Even Levine's father, a sock salesman who emigrated from eastern
 Europe, had a hard time accepting his son's sovereignist stripes
 and politics was off limits around the dinner table.
 After a civil engineering degree from McGill University and a
 masters degree in health administration from the University of
 Montreal, Levine ran a community clinic before joining the staff
 of PQ MNA Bernard Landry, who happened to be his neighbour at the
 time and is now Quebec's deputy premier.
 When the D'Arcy-McGee by-election was called, then premier Rene
 Levesque wanted to ease fears the Jewish community had about the
 rise of nationalism in the province, said Henry Milner, a former
 PQ candidate and party executive.
 No one in the PQ - starting with Levine - thought they had any
 chance of winning the riding.
 It certainly wasn't a political career he was embarking on,
 that's for sure,'' said Milner, a Queen's University political
 scientist who worked on Levine's campaign.
 PQ MNA David Payne, who also worked on Levine's campaign, said
 Levine tried to assure anglophones that separatists did not
 grow horns.''
 Bantey, now a newspaper columnist, says he can't recall Levine
 ever trying to sell sovereignty in a campaign speech.
 I don't know what kind of sovereignist he is. I would never
 swear by his convictions,'' he said.
 As expected, Levine was trounced by Liberal candidate Herbert
 Marx 22,293 votes to 813.
 He left the PQ in 1981, complaining that it had lost touch with
 the Socialist roots that attracted him.
 He became chief executive of the Verdun General Hospital - where
 he implemented an innovative home-care program - before landing
 the same job with Notre-Dame hospital in 1992. An anglophone Jew
 landing the top job at Quebec's largest hospital - a francophone
 and Catholic institution - was no small feat.
 He was appointed without a whimper and with open arms. Contrast
 that with what's happening in Ottawa,'' said Payne, referring to
 the current strident resistance to Levine because of his PQ past.
 In 1995, Levine accepted then-premier Jacques Parizeau's
 invitation to sit on the Montreal commission on Quebec's future.
 Its report, released seven months before that year's referendum,
 warned the government that Quebecers would not opt for
 sovereignty unless the PQ first explained what an independent
 Quebec would look like.
 He was appointed without a whimper and with open arms'David Payne
 PQ MNA

 During his stay at Notre-Dame, Payne had to implement massive
 cuts that saw the 800 beds at his hospital reduced by 300. He cut
 the average hospital stay by adopting the ambulatory'' approach
 to medicine - setting a timetable for a patient's exit the moment
 he or she enters the hospital by co-ordinating lab services,
 diagnosis, surgery and home care.
 The upheaval from the forced budget cuts was great, but Levine
 went out of his way to make it as painless as possible for
 patients and workers, said Claude Arseneault, head of
 Notre-Dame's User Committee, which the government has set up in
 all hospitals to help patients.
 He's an excellent administrator,'' Arseneault said.
 When three downtown hospitals, including Notre-Dame, were
 amalgamated, Levine was touted as the obvious candidate for the
 top job.
 But health minister Jean Rochon made it clear that he preferred a
 different candidate and, on the backing of friend Bernard Landry,
 a disappointed Levine settled for the job of Quebec's
 delegate-general in New York.
 Levine grabbed the offer from the Ottawa hospital without first
 informing the PQ, a source says. That miffed Premier Lucien
 Bouchard's government and that explains why it took a week before
 Landry and Bouchard publicly denounced the resistance to his
 Ottawa appointment, the source said.



LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              268 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                       May 28, 1998, Thursday, Edition 1

HIRE A SEPARATIST?
 CALLERS SAY NON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 459 words


Many residents in the nation's capital are furious that David
 Levine, a highly experienced hospital administrator who ran
 unsuccessfully for the separatist Parti Quebecois in 1979, has
 been appointed head of a major Ottawa hospital. The hospital
 board said it hired him on the basis of his competence, not his
 politics.
 Tuesday's question: Should a person's political philosophy ever
 be a factor in hiring?
 Politics should be taken into account only when the political
 view is anti-Canada. You can't put, in essence, a traitor to our
 country in important public office. These separatists should not
 be walking both sides of the street.
 No, unless the person is an anarchist, nihilist, terrorist, his
 political position should not have anything to do with it. This
 man has shown himself capable of amalgamating hospitals in
 Montreal. He can do it in Ottawa.
 Generally, I would say no. But if a person uses his position to
 promote a particular political cause, such as Nazism or
 separatism, then he should not be in that position.
 No. As long as the philosophy is legal under Canadian law, it
 should not be a factor in hiring.
 Yes, if the person is a traitor to the country and belongs to a
 group of people determined to break up the country.
 No. If this man is the best one for the job, he should have it,
 and that's irrelevant of how I feel about the Quebec situation.
 Yes. Do you think the National Council of Jews would hire
 (holocaust denier) Ernst Zundel? Do you think the Fraser
 Institute would hire (Toronto Councillor) Kyle Rae? You could go
 on and on.
 No. If the man can do the job, his political leanings shouldn't
 be a factor. I, personally, am sick to death of this anti-Quebec
 rhetoric in Ontario.
 Yes. It seems if you're a Nazi and you happen to be hired as a
 teacher, you can get fired for it. This Mr. Levine wants to break
 up the country. That should be taken into account.
 The last time I checked, the PQ was a legal party in Canada and
 people have the right to join whatever party they want. Mr.
 Levine pays taxes and so do Quebecers.
 YES OR NO

 In Canada, genetically engineered food must be labelled only when
 it changes the nutritional value or could pose a health risk to
 some people.
 Should all genetically engineered foods be labelled?
 Dial (416) 868-3900 with your yes or no by 10 a.m. tomorrow.
 Results on Tuesday.
 CALENDAR

 Dionne quintuplets (Marie, Emilie, Yvonne, Annette and Cecile),
 world's first recorded surviving quintuplets, born at Corbeil,
 Ont., 1934.
 Also birthdate of cartoonist Lynn Johnston, creator of For Better
 or For Worse, at Collingwood, 1947.







LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              269 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Wood was welcome at Royal Glam demo;
COMMENT DEBATE & ; YOUR LETTERS TO THE NATIONAL NEWSPAPER OF WALES

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 399 words


¦ SIR - Amanda Jones' letter (June 4) attacking Leanne Wood contained numerous
inaccuracies and misrepresentations.

To clear up any confusion, Leanne supports the retention of services at the
Royal Glamorgan hospital in Llantrisant and is campaigning to achieve this. She
has gone on the record on television, radio and in print as saying this so I'm
surprised by Ms Jones' doubt about this.

Secondly, I want to refute the point made that Leanne enraged the crowd with her
speech - I was there and this was far from what actually happened. If that had
been the case the "enraged crowd" would no doubt have objected to her
subsequently marching through the town and Ynysangharad Park with them and being
photographed with her behind a banner saying "Save the Royal Glamorgan hospital
".

There were no such objections and Leanne was welcomed and greeted warmly.

During her speech in which she gave an impassioned defence of the Royal
Glamorgan hospital and urged the crowd to get behind plans to save it, she was
heckled by one Labour councillor when she suggested that we should all come
together across various communities and political parties to protect all of our
hospitals in South Wales. The heckler's point being that "it's Bridgend's
problem" if their hospital closes.

My point is why should the leader of a political party for all of Wales not
decide to put the Welsh Interest first? There are levels of deprivation in the
catchment area for the Princess of Wales hospital in Bridgend, particularly in
the valleys. People in Maesteg are just as entitled to be within reasonable
distance of an accident and emergency unit as people in Treorci.

It should be the aim of the Welsh Government to ensure the health service is
capable of providing this. It is very regrettable that a Labour Government in
Wales has allowed a situation to arise where communities are being pitted
against each other. Labour once was the party of solidarity and helping poor
communities stand together.

This is just a distant memory judging by the response of the Labour heckler in
question and numerous other Labour figures campaigning for option 4 in the
consultation. However, I suspect the Welsh Government is content with a
situation where communities are divided and, ultimately ruled, as it plays right
into their hands and plans for centralisation.

ESTHER NAGLE Former Plaid Cymru council candidate, Ystrad Rhondda

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 9 1986, Thursday

Fowler to cut hospital queues / Health Secretary unveils building programme at
Tory Party conference in Bournemouth

BYLINE: RICHARD EVANS, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62584.

LENGTH: 385 words


A nationwide crackdown on lengthy hospital waiting lists and a pounds 3 billion
hospital building programme were unveiled yesterday by Mr Norman Fowler,
Secretary of State for Social Services, as he attempted to meet the public's
growing concern about the Government's handling of the health service.

He promised improved treatment for the elderly with substantially more hip
replacement, heart by-pass, and eye operations by the end of the decade.


The party conference in Bournemouth was also told there would be more
bone-marrow transplant operations for children, better facilities for mentally
handicapped youngsters and a stepping up of the fight against cervical cancer.

His upbeat message on one of the key political issues in the run-up to the next
general election appeared to satisfy many of the doubters within Conservative
ranks.

What he did not tell conference was that there will be no extra cash for his
package of measures.

The misgivings within the Conservative Party about the Government's National
Health Service record surfaced repeatedly during the debate, with complaints
about hospital waiting lists and lack of cash for day-to-day running of
hospitals.

More than 600,000 are now waiting for hospital treatment.

One Birmingham GP told Mr Fowler that while the Government was producing cash
for new health projects, many existing services were falling apart. 'People
won't vote for you if tell them everything is marvellous and they see waiting
lists stretching halfway across hospital grounds,' Dr Andrew Harvey said.

Mr Fowler attempted to reassure such critics by accepting the problem of waiting
lists was the public's main concern. 'Too many people are still waiting too
long,' he said.

'That is why I have asked every health authority to report to me on their local
position: to set out where and why patients are waiting mot, and to say how that
position can be improved. Those reports will be with me by the end of this
month, and we will act upon them.

'Let there be no mistake. I now intend to achieve a further substantial fall in
waiting lists in this country. '

More cash was being devoted to health than ever before and the health service
had a record number of doctors and nurses. 'We care and we care in action,' he
added.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited


                              271 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                           August 19, 2015 Wednesday

Political workers stall shifting of Anantnag's Maternity hospital

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: Anantnag


Anantnag, Aug. 19 -- Even as the fire and emergency services department has
declared the building housing the south Kashmir's sole maternity and child care
hospital (MCH) Anantnag as totally unsafe,

the government continues to be reluctant in shifting the hospital despite
availability of the alternative.

Locals allege that few politically influential medicates and shopkeepers have
managed to get the shifting stalled for their monetary interests.

The maternity hospital is located in congested Sherbag locality of the town
causing inconvenience to the patients in reaching the hospital. Most often the
expecting mothers needing immediate care get stuck in

traffic jams forcing the attendants to carry them on shoulders up to the
hospital. The space crunch inside the hospital is such that the labor and post
operative wards having the capacity of 8 beds is stuffed 20 beds. The fire and
emergency service officials last after conducting the safety

audit of the hospital building declared it totally unsafe. They had recommended
the immediate shifting of the hospital to some safer place or construction of
the new building block. Though

the chief medical officer, Anantnag, few months ago had started the process of
shifting but sources said, some medicates and shopkeepers managed to halt the
move by using their political influence. "CMO had yet shifted only the operation
theatre but such was the political pressure that he had to shift back the
theatre overnight," they said. An official of the health department said that a
handful of

shopkeepers and medicates running their shops outside the hospital for their
monetary benefits don't want the hospital be shifted. "Since they happen to be
the workers of ruling PDP and that is why the

party new face of the party personally intervened and ensured that the hospital
is shifted back overnight. One wonders how low these politicians can stop for
few votes," the official said adding the then medical superintendent of the
hospital, who is also the favorite of Muftis also supported the selfish
medicates for his worst interests. A local, Mumtaz Ahmad, questioned the wisdom
and arrogance of the

authorities of playing with the lives of both the mothers and their newborns.
"This is the height of political arrogance that despite a spacious building
available for the smooth functioning of the hospital

you don't risk the lives of patients by not allowing the shifting of the
hospital. If the health minister claims to bring revolution in the health sector
why is he silent over this serious issue," Ahmad said.

MoS Health Asiya Naqash admitted that the hospital lacks adequate safe, however
expressed ingournace about the shifting of the hospital. "I am not aware about
the shifting of the hospital when actually it was shifted! All I know is that
the situation in the hospital is grim," she said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday
                                 Travel Edition

Blame game obscures decades of neglect by all concerned

BYLINE: STEPHEN LEEDER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 997  words


YEARS of neglect of the public health system have created an overgrown variant
of Jurassic Park: federal political aspirants with or without an interest in
health pushing through the undergrowth with minimal skill and effort can have
lots of fun if properly armed. They can shoot at almost anything and score a
direct hit. Your hospital not running well? Sell it to John Howard for $1.
Alternatively, privatise it. Emergency Department down at heel? Appoint a
community board to run a lamington drive for a new defibrillator. Blame the
states. Blame the Commonwealth.

These ''let's go hunting'' games obscure the failure in recent decades in
Australia to invest in public hospitals commensurate with population growth,
despite the fact that many high-tech and expensive services are provided by them
-- and them alone. And the willingness of all parties to engage in the quick fix
means that no-one has been bold enough to tackle the reforms in hospital funding
and services that are required to reflect the healthcare needs of the 21st
century.

Our governments and the private sector have done nicely from this
underinvestment. Shifting public money to the private sector via the health
insurance subsidy has suited business, and several medical specialities have
profited. The Commonwealth feels justified in subsequently limiting its
investment in public hospitals and aged care and, until very recently, the
states have been able to happily save as more medical services are done in the
private sector.

Let's look further at the effect of these health policies -- these ''how to cut
the costs of health services by cutting the services'' policies -- on emergency
care.

To operate an effective emergency department in a public hospital first requires
skilled staff. At present, there are insufficient trained emergency physicians,
and locums, junior and overseas-trained doctors are recruited to fill gaps. They
are not happy, feel undervalued, ignored and abused. The failure at both policy
and managerial levels to resolve this problem must be shared among bureaucrats,
physicians, hospital managers, and academic training institutions.

Problems like these happen when there is no political leadership interested in
health and no vision beyond the electoral cycle. Superior recruitment
strategies, changed attitudes to remuneration for emergency physicians, and
enlightened management practices are required. An aspiring federal politician
might well bend his or her mind as to how to meet such a requirement. Discussion
with those providing the services is the place to begin.

The second missing piece in emergency service provision is enough beds. Public
hospital bed availability has been decreasing. The growth in private emergency
departments has not kept pace with the relative increase in private sector beds.
Thus, proportionally, an ever-increasing load has been placed on public
emergency departments at the same time as public bed availability has been
falling.

Studies have shown that ''access block'' occurs once hospital occupancy rates
exceed 85 per cent, but large city hospitals in Australia commonly operate with
occupancy rates over 95 per cent. The arithmetic is simple and political
leadership could use it to solve the problem of emergency care. Integrating
hospital care with well-resourced community services would improve the quality
of life of older patients and probably halve their need for hospital admissions.

Public concern about emergency services has taken the lid off broader worries in
the community. It is hard as a patient or a citizen to know who it is that you
should turn to when wishing to express concern about health care. Tony Abbott
has proposed ways of increasing accountability of hospitals to their communities
for their services. Fair enough.

Certainly there is a perception that, in seeking political control over health
services and to cut down on public complaints, states have reduced the extent to
which the community can call the service to account, especially at the local
level.

However, times have changed. Thirty or 40 years ago when high-tech
specialisation was uncommon, most hospitals had their own board. But hospitals
can no longer operate as individual entities, unconnected to other hospitals and
to an integrated system of services and care.

Greater specialisation (with fewer hospitals being able any longer to offer all
services) led to the formation of area health services or their equivalent in
most states. They had boards that replaced those of individual hospitals -- an
often unpopular move but one that many observers claim improved health services.

In Victoria, for example, networks that link various health services have
boards, and these oversee how well services are provided on behalf of the whole
community. Perhaps this is the best example in Australia at present at finding a
balance between bureaucratic efficiency and community accountability.

Unfortunately, to move back to the situation where every hospital has its own
board invites a return to disintegrated service provision, and ignores the fact
that highly specialised health services are nowadays provided not in every
hospital, but at regional, state and sometimes even national centres of
excellence. It also seems certain to ensure that less well-off areas, less able
to advocate and raise funds, will have poorer services, thus doing nothing to
resolve the growing problem of inequity in health care in Australia. This
proposed solution to the problem of lack of accountability comes from the age of
the dinosaur.

There is plenty for the thoughtful federal political aspirant to discuss and to
propose in relation to the nation's health. Not least is how to provide
integrated hospital care and care in the community. Put down your weapons,
please, look around, think, and lead.

Professor Stephen Leeder is director of the the Australian Health Policy
Institute and co-director of the Menzies Centre for Health Policy at the
University of Sydney

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                     August 23, 1997 Saturday Final Edition

Health-care cuts: True blue politics or fair play?

SOURCE: The Spectator

BYLINE: Craig Sumi

SECTION: BURLINGTON NEWS; Pg. N4

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON


Virginia McLaughlin, chair of the group representing the 17 hospitals in the
GTA-905 area, is fuzzy about bed counts, uncertain of population numbers and not
so sure of the formulas the commission is using to calculate hospital
utilization.

But when asked about the number of provincial politicians there are in the
GTA-905 belt her answer comes without hesitation.

"Seventeen," she says, without skipping a beat. "And every one of them is blue."
Blue as in Tory blue. Blue as in Conservative blue. Blue as in Mike Harris blue.

And there are some who believe that because every one of the 17 seats in Halton,
York, Durham and Peel is blue, the hospitals in these regions have a better
chance of surviving when the commission turns its eye to the GTA-905 belt this
fall.

"Closing a small town hospital in a riding held by a government MPP is a very
major political land mine that politicians are not going to want to step on,"
says Dr. Garnet Maley, president of the Halton Medical Society.

"I suspect that in true blue Tory areas, there won't be too many adjustments."

The commission has gone to lengths to ensure its decisions have been based on
the best available medical data and analysis -- and not politics.

And Health Minister Jim Wilson has emphasized repeatedly that the commission
will work free of political influence.

But can any government-appointed body work completely free of politics when
assigned the task of possibly closing hospitals? Critics say no.

They point to the commission's change of heart on the Montfort Hospital as an
example of how the commission's work got political.

The commission's preliminary report on the Ottawa-area hospitals recommended
closure of Montfort, Ontario's lone francophone health centre.

But after intense political lobbying that went as high as Prime Minister Jean
Chretien, the commission reversed its original decision and last week
recommended Montfort be spared, albeit in a smaller version.

Politics? Or was the commission simply listening to sound and rational arguments
from supporters of the hospital? Then there was the government's rural hospitals
policy.

After several rural hospitals, most of which were in ridings held by backbench
Tory MPPs, had been earmarked for closure, Wilson announced the government was
going to consider a new rural hospital policy to better protect the country
hospital.

This prompted opposition critics to cry foul, particularly since the commission
had announced closings in Thunder Bay and Sudbury, primarily Liberal and
NDP-held ridings.

More politics?

University of Toronto health economist Raisa Deber says the process of closing
hospitals can't avoid becoming political at some point. "There isn't a better
way to lose an election than to foul up health care," she says.

To be fair, the government has so far held firm on its decision to close Women's
College Hospital and 10 other Toronto hospitals -- many in ridings held by Tory
MPPs.

McLaughlin said the 17 GTA-905 hospitals -- which have formed a group called the
GTA-905 Health Care Alliance -- have deliberately not lobbied Tory MPPs on the
restructuring issue because of the apolitical mandate of the commission.

But the alliance is certainly capable of exerting political pressure. It was
formed two years ago in response to provincial funding cutbacks to hospitals and
has since successfully lobbied and convinced the government to establish a
special fund for hospitals in fast-growing communities.

"We have always prided ourselves on keeping our MPPs informed about our concerns
about funding," she says.

Dr. Maley says the commission has been "very ethical" and believes "they are
working to make the best possible decisions for Ontarians," but in the end, when
there's a decision to be made to close a hospital, politics can't help but be
part of the equation.

He noted that during the federal election campaign earlier this summer he
participated in a forum on health care in Milton, in which Halton North MPP Ted
Chudleigh was invited to attend.

"The focus was supposed to be on federal issues, but person after person stood
up and said to Ted Chudleigh -- 'If you close our hospitals, you won't be
elected dog catcher in this town!"

WHAT PEOPLE SAY

Question: Based on your experiences with the health care system in Halton, do
our hospitals need more or fewer resources? (Asked at Joseph Brant Memorial
Hospital)

"We need a lot more resources because people are living longer and are coming to
hospitals a lot sicker. Now is not the time to be cutting back. Now is the time
to be investing in more health care. Right now, I think care is suffering. The
doctors and nurses are doing the best they can with the funding they have."

Margaret Cameron Burlington

"Hospitals need more funding. I don't like the level of care we are getting
right now. My mother has been in the hospital for three weeks. I see the nurses
scrambling around to do everything they can but there's not enough staff, so
they can't spend the time with patients that I know they would like to."

Sharon Leitch

Burlington

"There's a hell of a lot of redundancy and waste in hospitals. There's lots of
machines, lots of duplicated services, and I see people chatting away in a
corner and ignoring anybody who really needs help. I think we have to do a
better job with the funding that's given."

John Noell

Burlington

"I think the system is fine just the way it is. I was hit by a car last
September, broke my leg and spent two weeks in the hospital. When I got out, I
had in-home nursing visits and therapy. The system worked."

Steve Irwin

Stoney Creek

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: John Noell Colour Photo: Sharon Leitch Colour Photo:
Steve Irwin Colour Photo: Margaret Cameron

TYPE: Special report

                    Copyright 1997 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              274 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                   e1 Edition

Getting the best out of customer care;
To understand why poor service prevails in certain sectors one needs to look
into how past influences affect present attitudes

BYLINE: Bonke Dumisa

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1117 words


SOUTH Africans tend to criticise the bad service we receive at various public
and private institutions, as will I later in this article. We must, however,
also praise good service where we find it, especially where it involves entities
we previously complained about.

Last Saturday, after four full days at the Quartermaine Hotel in Morningside,
Gauteng, I was impressed by the personalised service I got, especially the
statement from the front-desk woman who said: "Have a good trip, Prof, it was
nice having you."

From the hotel, I went to the brand new Terminal B at OR Tambo International
Airport where I was impressed by the fast, efficient service of the South
African Airways check-in counter assistants. At the SAA Business Lounge I found
the service to be as excellent as usual. Flying business class from Joburg to
Durban, I was treated like royalty, with cabin crew continuously referring to me
as Prof. I do not know how they knew my name and my professorial title, but this
made me feel I was not just a nameless passenger.

These experiences made me feel we are ready to provide the best hospitality and
service to our foreign visitors during the soccer Confederations Cup in three
weeks' time, and the World Cup next year.

I am looking forward to writing about good service at our public hospitals, like
the good service one always experiences at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital and
the over-crowded McCord Hospital.

It was great to hear and read about new KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health Sibongiseni
Dhlomo's surprise visit to the ever-troubled Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Phoenix.
That was definitely a good start.

Occupying force

I now urge Dhlomo and the KZN portfolio committee on health to go one further at
Prince Mshiyeni Hospital in Umlazi. They must literally declare themselves an
occupying force at Prince Mshiyeni. Things are so bad at that hospital that it
is much easier for an overseas visitor to find his way around Durban without a
GPS than it is to locate a patient there.

Trying to get help or directions around this hospital is a depressing experience
because many employees there seem not to care how people perceive the hospital.
I must add that the problem at this hospital is not a hospital management
problem. There are many nurses, doctors, and some members of the hospital
management who are trying their best to make things work, despite the very
depressing conditions there.

It pains me that that hospital is as chaotic today as it was when it was
launched by the erstwhile KwaZulu bantustan regime. There is a staff mind-set
and attitude challenge that needs to be thoroughly diagnosed and addressed as a
matter of urgency.

It is worth taking a look at the history of this hospital, because what is
happening there now is somehow influenced by past events.

Umlazi "New" township was established in the early 1960s as a direct product of
apartheid compartmentalising blacks into separate tribal groups. Umlazi was
established as a township for Zulus. When blacks were forcibly removed from
Umkhumbane, and when others were moved out of Glebelands Location, only the
isiZulu speakers were deemed eligible to move to Umlazi. Non-isiZulu speakers
were moved to KwaMashu and other places.

In an effort to showcase Umlazi as a viable township for the Zulus, the
residents of Umlazi were gradually cut off from doing many things in Durban. For
example, whereas Durban residents registered their properties in
Pietermaritzburg, the people of Umlazi had to register their properties in
Ulundi. At one stage, the residents of Umlazi were even forced not to use the
South African Revenue Services offices in Durban because they were expected to
use "their own" income tax offices in Umlazi.

It is against this background that Prince Mshiyeni Hospital was established.
There was an apartheid agenda to reduce use of King Edward VIII Hospital by the
so-called citizens of KwaZulu. This approach played a critical role in the
manner in which things were done at the hospital, including the manner in which
staff appointments were made.

The politicisation of the black masses in the former Natal province, and the
increasing unionisation of trade in these areas, triggered some
counter-revolutionary actions which were designed to suppress such
anti-apartheid sentiments. It is at this stage the trade union federation Uwusa
was formed to undermine the gains of the genuine trade unions in this province.
It was at this stage that the "third force" was unleashed on the people of
Umlazi and other areas in Natal, under the guise of dealing with so-called
"black on black violence".

Prince Mshiyeni Hospital effectively became a launching pad and a quasi-army
base for such forces who were out to suppress the growing anti-apartheid spirit
in the region.

Pledge

It was during this era that all the critical civil servants - including doctors,
nurses, and teachers in Umlazi and other areas falling under the erstwhile
KwaZulu bantustan - were instructed to sign a political pledge wherein they were
expected to undertake not to criticise or vilify the KwaZulu leadership. Many
doctors refused to sign such a pledge, and many were immediately purged from
their jobs in hospitals like Prince Mshiyeni and Edendale.

It is this highly politicised environment that triggered confrontations between
the workers at Prince Mshiyeni and the KwaZulu political powers of that era.

This became a good breeding ground for political activism, and it is this
hospital environment that produced current political and trade union leaders
like Sdumo Dlamini, the president of Cosatu; Weziwe Thusi, the KZN MEC for Arts,
Culture and Sports; and Noluthando Mayende-Sibiya, the national minister
responsible for gender, youth and people with disabilities.

Being defiant became a culture at Mshiyeni. Unfortunately, 15 years after the
demise of apartheid, the mind-set and attitudes of some of the employees at this
hospital have not yet adjusted to post-apartheid political realities.

I challenge our political and trade union leaders to take it upon themselves to
reset the minds of the workers at that hospital. It is not just a question of
lack of resources that makes this hospital dysfunctional. The provincial
government can throw as much money as it possibly can at this hospital, but
things will not change for the better until the attitudes of the workers there
have been completely changed.

It is unfortunate that the Health Department and the hospitals' managements
decided not to allow hospital boards to be effective tools for community inputs
on how to make public hospitals serve the needs of the people.

With the right political will, this can be done.

l Bonke Dumisa is a Durban businessman and economist.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                 Copyright 2009 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            November 2, 1997 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Inquiry into Wooldridge electorate donor `error'

BYLINE: FIA CUMMING Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 455 words


A PRIVATE hospital company which donated $10,000 to the Liberal Party was listed
in the party's official electoral returns under the mail address of Federal
Health Minister Michael Wooldridge.

The Australian Electoral Commission is investigating the mistake and a number of
other anomalies in declarations of donations to the Liberals from companies in
Dr Wooldridge's electorate.

Ramsay Health Care, which operates a string of private hospitals, has been a
major beneficiary of the Government's health policies, which subsidise people
with private health insurance and penalise high-income earners without it.

The Liberal Party's federal secretariat in Canberra recorded the donation,
listing its business address as PO Box 31, Box Hill, Melbourne.

However, the address was the mail address for Dr Wooldridge's electorate office,
paid for by the Administrative Services Department.

In answer to a question from Labor MP Kelvin Thomson, Dr Wooldridge said it was
a "clerical error" by the Liberal Party, but did not try to explain how it could
have happened. Mr Thomson said the explanation was unsatisfactory.

"The minister has been asking us to believe that a Liberal Party functionary
somehow mixed up the addresses of a private health firm based in South Melbourne
with a Liberal Party MP's electorate office on the other side of Melbourne," Mr
Thomson told

Parliament.

"Of all the addresses in the world to get mixed up, why would the Liberal Party
have chosen the minister'staxpayer-funded post office box?"

Mr Thomson asked the Electoral Commission to investigate the donation and others
from companies in Dr Wooldridge's electorate of Chisholm which were not properly
declared.

Five donations from the electorate were apparently not declared in individual
returns: * $5,000 to the Federal Liberal Party from a company which also gave an
incomplete post office box address; * $4,000 to the Victorian Liberal Party from
a business association; * $2,000 to the Victorian Liberal Party from a taxi
association; * $5,000 to the Victorian Liberal Party from an individual; and *
$1,500 to the 500 Club, an entity associated with the Liberal Party, from two
brothers.

Another donation of $5,555 to the 500 Club from a car dealer was declared by the
company but not by the Liberal Party.

Electoral Commission funding and disclosure director Brad Edgman said the
inquiry was continuing but was expected to be completed soon.

Dr Wooldridge won Chisholm, a swinging seat, in 1987, and has worked hard to
make it safer.

He used enormous billboards and intense telephone campaigning as well as
traditional methods during the 1996 election campaign.

Insiders in his campaign claim the cost was well over $200,000, an extraordinary
amount for a single MP.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1997 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A&E crisis sparks Labour attack;
Miliband hits out over NHS letter telling hospitals to consider political
fallout of decisions

BYLINE: BenHurst

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 573 words


NEW NHS guidelines for hospitals in the West Midlands telling doctors to take
into account potential political damage before declaring a major incident have
sparked a major row in the House of Commons.

Prime Minister David Cameron and Labour leader Ed Miliband clashed over the
decision to issue the advice in the wake of a series of crises at hospitals in
the region. Last month Walsall's Manor Hospital declared a major incident in its
A&E department, saying it was full and advising patients to seek treatment
elsewhere.

Ed > Now the NHS has written to West Midlands hospitals in what has been claimed
is a bid to stop them speaking out.

Mr Miliband said ministers were making it "harder" for hospitals to deal with
demands on them for political reasons.

The NHS was "in crisis", he said, and Mr Cameron had broken a promise at the
last election to save 29 NHS units.

Mr Miliband said the head of operations at an NHS trust warned that NHS England
had introduced "enhanced criteria" to stop trusts calling a major incident.

He said: "The whistleblower says the hospitals' hands are being tied. The Prime
Minister says they are not. Who do you think people will believe?" But the Prime
Minister replied: "The NHS in the West Midlands, without any instruction from
the Department of Health or ministers, issued a statement about major incidents.

"The head of NHS England was asked about it this morning and she said 'I have
not been under any political pressure - this document was issued in the West
Midlands'.

Miliband "What a contrast between the operational managers of the NHS and the
man who wants to weaponise the NHS."

Earlier shadow health secretary Andy Burnham said the new "enhanced criteria"
issued to West Midlands NHS trusts would make it practically impossible for
hospitals to declare a major incident and "muddy the waters" by making doctors
take into account political involvement and media coverage.

But Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt insisted the guidance was a local matter that
was nothing to do with the Government and said Labour had "sunk to new depths"
in trying to politicise the NHS.

Major incidents are declared when patient demand reaches a level that could
disrupt hospital services, triggering an alert to community hospitals and other
health centres in the area to make extra beds available.

Mr Burnham claimed it was not a local matter as the guidance stated that major
incidents must be approved by the on-call director at NHS England, a national
public body.

Asking an urgent question in the Commons, he called for Mr Hunt to make NHS
England withdraw the guidance immediately and issue more "appropriate
instructions".

Drawing attention to a specific section headed "politics", Mr Burnham said the
guidance stated NHS staff took into account "increasing involvement of senior
command and control tiers, political involvement or excessive media coverage",
as well as "a risk of reputational damage".

Responding to the claims NHS England's national director of commissioning
operations, Barbara Hakin, said: "Local hospitals continue to have
responsibility for deciding whether to declare major incidents, but before doing
so best practice dictates that they take account of the wider impacts on other
parts of the NHS so that patient safety in the round is protected.

"That's why NHS England's local area team in the West Midlands decided to issue
these guidelines. This was not a decision of the Department of Health."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ed MilibandLabour say West Midlands hospitals are being stopped from
speaking out <B

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMP


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 12, 1991, Thursday

Future of NHS trusts divides party: The health service ; The Liberal Democrats
in Bournemouth

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 646 words


SOME OF the Government's health service changes - including amended versions of
hospital trusts - could survive under a Liberal Democrat-influenced government,
it emerged yesterday.

As the party conference passed a confused resolution opposing NHS trusts, in a
debate that revealed divided views on the changes, Charles Kennedy, the party's
health spokesman, said the second wave of NHS trusts would be cancelled.

But each of the existing 57 trusts would be examined individually to see if
local people wanted them to continue. Where they did, he indicated, they would
remain. The conference also called for directly elected representatives to be
added to trust boards.

The heart of the party's objection to the NHS changes, he said, was their lack
of local democracy, and the membership of health authorities, dominated by
Tories, would have to be revised.

But he warned the conference that the NHS could not afford another wholesale
reorganisation. Government hostility, underfunding and restructuring had already
sapped morale. ''We cannot lurch into further reorganisation,'' he told the
conference. ''That would dismay and depress the staff even more. The necessity
is for a pragmatic way forward.'' A policy document for February was now being
prepared.

His comments came as an amended and complex motion both opposed NHS trusts, and
proposed changes to them, including preventing queue-jumping by the patients of
GP budget-holders.

But the debate revealed significant support for the NHS changes - including the
purchaser/provider split, and GP budget holding - to be allowed to continue so
that they can be properly assessed. Against that, some speakers bitterly
condemned the NHS market.

Sharon Bowles, the prospective candidate for Aylesbury, said ''replacing co-
operation with competition is playing beggar-my-neighbour with the health
service.'' Claims that some hospitals were succeeding was probably true, but
they were doing so at the expense of their neighbours. Andy Myles, a hospital
administrator from Edinburgh, said health lay ''in the field of social policy,
not the jungle of the market place''. The party should abolish trusts.

But Dr Paul Beatty, the prospective candidate for Macclesfield, indicated that
reformed trusts should be given a chance, but there should be no more ''until
they are a proven utility''.

Linda Siegle, the prospective candidate for Dorset North, strongly opposed
trusts in their present form. But she said ''they could be made to answer to
staff, patients and the local community, and the purchaser/provider split could
be maintained''.

Valerie Silbiger, a health personnel manager from north London, told the
conference: ''Whether or not the trusts continue, the purchaser/provider system
of health is likely to remain. District health authorities, family health
service authorities and GP fund holders are all finding benefits from
identifying the health needs of their community and setting the contracts for
the appropriate care to be delivered by the providers.''

Dr David Wrede, prospective candidate for Hampstead and Highgate, said the
trusts needed to be made locally accountable, but warned ''we must not plan
another NHS reorganisation''.

Michael Anderson, a member of Mid- Surrey health authority, said he deeply
disliked the way the trusts had been set up. But the one his authority dealt
with ''has been more responsive to local need. There may well be scope for
continuation of some of the trusts which already exist'' with local
representation on them. The last thing hundreds of dedicated NHS staff wanted
was another major reorganisation.

Mr Kennedy also reassured the conference that despite the party's new commitment
to de-centralised public sector pay, the existing national pay review bodies
would remain. Regionalisation of pay would come as regional government was
brought in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                              278 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Wiltshire Gazette and Herald

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday

Chippenham politicians join forces for hospital campaign

BYLINE: Laura Williams

SECTION: CHIPPENHAM NEWS

LENGTH: 342 words


Chippenham politicians from opposing parties have joined forces to help save
Chippenham hospital.

Both the Conservative and the Liberal Democrat prospective candidates for the
new Chippenham ward have spoken of their horror at Wiltshire Primary Care
Trust's (PCT) plan to cut beds at the town's hospital.

Conservative Wilfred Emmanuel-Jones and Liberal Democrat Duncan Hames will both
attend the Chippenham Hospital Action Group (CHAG) meeting in Chippenham Town
Hall on March 1.

They will join medical staff, including Chippenham GP Nick Brown, North
Wiltshire MP James Gray and district and town councillors as well as patients
and carers.

Mr Emmanuel-Jones, who is also known as the Black Farmer, has already signed the
online petition against the NHS cuts in Chippenham.

He said: "It is the height of madness with all the plans that there are, for
growth in Chippenham for the next 10-20 years, that they are actually thinking
of reducing the number of beds. It's very important for all of us to try and
convince them that we are going to need a really good, proper, functioning
hospital.

"This is non political, it's about us lending our support to the medical
profession."

Mr Hames has high hopes for the CHAG and said it was a rare occasion for
politicians and supporters from all political parties to help make a difference.

He said: "I'm very glad that we appear to have cross party support for the
Chippenham hospital. We really can achieve a lot more when we work together.

"Concern about our hospital is the most consistently mentioned issue by local
residents who I speak to when I go visiting them. It's important that we help
them find a voice.

"It's time that the government made available to capital funding for investment
in Chippenham hospital. We haven't seen a penny yet.

"It's important that we should all make clear to the government how important it
is that we do invest in our community hospital in Chippenham."

Prospective labour candidate Nick Thomas-Symonds and Green Party candidate
Lorraine Roberts-Rance were unavailable for comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      July 17, 2000, Monday, Home Edition

Headaches hospitalize Coverdell

BYLINE: Doug Payne, Milo Ippolito, Staff

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: News; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 225 words

Sen. Paul Coverdell (R-Ga.) is undergoing tests at Piedmont Hospital after
complaining of severe headaches.

Hospital spokeswoman Nina Montanaro said Coverdell was admitted Saturday night.

"He had been experiencing severe headaches," she said. "They're doing some
tests. We expect him to be in the hospital for two or three days."

Hospital officials would not further characterize the problem. Eric Tanenblatt,
a family friend who has worked with Coverdell in past political campaigns, said
any further developments would be announced by the senator's office later in the
week.

Coverdell, 61, Georgia's senior senator, has reported no serious health
problems. He is known for working long hours.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.), a close ally, said he was alerted
by a Coverdell senior aide Sunday.

"They really didn't know what the problem was or how serious it was," Lott said.
"We are hoping and praying for the best."

Coverdell was not taking calls, and Lott said he did not speak to him directly.

Coverdell was a Republican leader in the state Senate and then for two years was
director of the Peace Corps before his election to the U.S. Senate in 1992, when
he defeated incumbent Democrat Wyche Fowler Jr.  He was re- elected in 1998.

---Ken Foskett of the Cox Washington Bureau contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Sen. Paul Coverdell is undergoing tests at Piedmont. / RICK McKAY  / Washington
Bureau

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              280 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Avoiding the obvious on health

BYLINE: Ken Baxter. Ken Baxter is former Secretary of Premier and Cabinet in
Victoria and NSW and currently chairman of TFG International.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 715 words


Neither Kevin Rudd nor Tony Abbott admitted taxes must rise to pay for health
care, writes Ken Baxter.

In their televised health policy debate yesterday, Kevin Rudd and Tony Abbott
both recognised there were complex challenges ahead if Australians were to
continue to enjoy a very high standard of health care.

Abbott made the significant point that maintaining high standards of health care
depends upon a continuing strong economy and a national capacity to pay, but no
audience or moderator questions really probed this relationship.

The PM and Abbott agreed that out-of-pocket contributions would continue, but on
the critical issue of would there be any increases in taxation both avoided what
is blindingly obvious. The current levels of expenditure by both the
commonwealth and the states are unsustainable.

Unless demand for and costs of providing health services is reduced either
taxation must rise to increase the funding for Medicare and what will be the
exponential cost increases of public hospitals or there will have to be
significant, continuing reductions of governments' expenditures elsewhere.

Both leaders supported the continuation of a strong private hospital system
alongside a public hospital system. There was no recognition that private health
insurance rates will also have to increase to maintain current standards.

A measure that would materially assist relieving the pressures on public
hospitals would be to get chronic care patients out of public hospitals. Both
political parties agree this is essential. It would probably release 3500 beds
or more in a full year. This needs to be done simultaneously with measures to
reduce presentations to casualty and emergency wards. That involves far greater
reliance on primary care services. Both major political parties agree.

It was a great shame that no one asked why the government had proposed a 60/40
split for commonwealth funding of the states' public hospitals rather than being
more adventurous and exploring one of the National Health and Hospital Review
Commission's recommendations known as "Medicare Select". If Abbott is serious
about developing a whole of sector long-term policy that will have less reliance
on taxation revenues he Abbott may be wise to explore the medium- to long-term
possibility of the Medicare Select funding model.

As with any discussion about the future of Australia's health sector the devil
is in the detail - especially over the delivery of services. Implementation
remains the real sleeper in the government's proposals. The PM indicated that
there would be greater devolution of management to the local hospital health
networks. However, he was unclear about which ministers will be responsible for
what functions.

The LHHNLHHN's will be established under state legislation and the states will
appoint the boards. Although he did not clarify, presumably the state minister
for health will be accountable?

In the case of NSW, as he pointed out in his letter to Premier Keneally on March
16, "we expect this can be achieved through a reallocation within your existing
resources. In addition we will seek a commitment from COAG [Council of
Australian Governments] to implement these reforms without any increase in
bureaucracy". Does that include his own 4400 health bureaucrats?

The states will be accountable for the operational performance of the LHHN's and
the individual hospitals while the federal government will judge the overall
performance of the LHHNs.

There are good political reasons for this approach. The Commonwealth will be
responsible for paying cheques, opening beds and kissing babies while the states
will have the responsibility of deciding "where to build new hospitals or where
to close existing hospitals to reflect changes in population and demand".

In the same letter to Premier Keneally the PM says: "The commonwealth has no
intention of closing any hospitals."

A very wise political decision, but it will only serve to continue the blame
game.

As NSW and Queensland move to activity-based funding, their health systems will
experience considerable dislocation and uncertainty. Combined with serious
concerns about the GST funding arrangements, it means that at least three of the
states are unlikely to agree to the proposals and we are headed for a
referendum.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The picture remains unclear as to how the increase in Medicare's
funding will be paid for. Photo: GLENN HUNT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2010 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 5, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Patients poorly served by political game

SECTION: INSIGHT; Leaders; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 321 words


THE more uncomfortable the wait, the worse it seems. When thousands of sick
people, some in pain, are involved, any wait seems intolerable. That makes
hospital waiting lists a politically potent issue. State Opposition Leader Ted
Baillieu knows it hurt the Kennett government and aims to turn the pain on the
Bracks Government at the November election. The Liberals have erected billboards
putting the question to Steve Bracks: "After 7 years ... Why haven't you fixed
hospital waiting lists?"

Unfortunately for Mr Baillieu, he wrongly claimed that the Kennett government
reduced waiting lists, which offered Labor an easy distraction from the
question. But how meaningful is the question? As an Age investigation reveals
today, the focus on waiting lists as a measure of the health system is misguided
at best. For a start, elective surgery patients account for less than 15 per
cent of hospital activity. The political sensitivity of waiting lists may even
compromise hospital policy based on the best assessments of clinical needs and
cost efficiency. A glaring instance was the treatment of public patients in
private hospitals, at a higher per patient cost, to trim the waiting list.

As the Government concedes, the list has grown slightly since it came to power
from 40,301 to 40,738, but it says the numbers treated have jumped more than
250,000. Behind the figures are calculations - political, administrative,
medical - so complex as to render the lists almost useless as a benchmark of the
Government's performance in health services, an area that soaks up 27 per cent
of the state budget. Given the costs, no party can reasonably promise to do much
more than establish better monitoring to eliminate the excessive waits endured
by a few patients. They do deserve better, but so do voters. Political games are
a poor substitute for proper, cost-effective policies to get the best out of all
areas of the health system.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday

Rabid dogs bite nine people in Khar

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 239

LENGTH: 370  words


Rabid dogs bit nine people in different localities of Khar tehsil on Saturday.

Officials of the health department said that the dog bite incidents took place
in Sadiqabad, Khar, Khoga Chena, and Ali Jan areas where at least nine people,
including children, were bitten by rabid dogs when they were on way to their
homes.

The victims were identified as Aisha Bibi, Jafar Khan, Abdul Shakoor Khan,
Fayyaz Khan, Idrees Khan, Asim Khan, Adil Khan, Tayyab Khan and Ahmed Ali.

All the victims were taken to the Agency Headquarters Hospital, Khar, for
treatment where some of them were later shifted to Timergara due to their
critical condition.

The officials of local health department confirmed the incidents and said that
nine victims were brought to the agency headquarters hospital for treatment.

Medical superintendent of the hospital, Dr Ikramullah Safi, told mediapersons
that some of victims had been referred to Timergara hospital owing to their
critical condition.

PA takes notice of referral of some patients to Timergara

Meanwhile, the residents complained that the agency headquarters hospital was
not providing treatment to the dog bite victims because there was no anti-rabies
vaccine in the hospital.

Bajaur Agency political agent Abdul Amir Khattak has taken serious notice of the
doctors refusing to treat the emergency patients. During a visit to the hospital
on Saturday he expressed his dismay over the unavailability of anti-rabies
vaccine at the agency headquarters hospital and other health units.

The political agent also met with agency surgeon Dr Wazir Khan and others senior
officials of the local health department. The health officials told the
political agent that there was no shortage of anti-rabies vaccine and others
facilities in the agency headquarters hospital. They said that the doctors at
emergency department were responsible for the matter because they had referred
the victims to Timergara hospital without bringing the matter to their notice.

The political agent asked the health officials to take action against the
doctors responsible for not providing treatment to the dog bite victims at the
hospital.

Later, the officials agreed to form a joint investigation committee to probe the
matter.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

No sign of service resumption at cancer hospital

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: CHITWAN


CHITWAN, May 2 -- Normal service delivery at Bharatpur Cancer Hospital continued
to remain suspended for the fifth day on Monday, with no signs of resumption.

The doctors of the hospital, who left for Kathmandu last Thursday to seek a
solution to the dispute over appointment of the hospital's executive director,
have failed to arrive at any breakthrough.

A day after the doctors reached Kathmandu, government formed a three-member
committee led by Dr Senendra Upreti. The team arrived in Chitwan on Monday and
met local political leaders, patients' attendants and the Chief District
Officer.

"Leaders of the three political parties will arrive at a decision based on the
conclusions drawn by the team following their discussions with all
stakeholders," said Dr Rameshwar Man Shrestha, chairman of the hospital's
executive committee.

The hospital's administration has been padlocked for over two months by health
workers close to the Maoists who support the hospital's former executive
director Dr Bhakta Man Shrestha. The former executive director has claimed that
Dr Singh's appointment is procedurally erroneous. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Watford Observer

                             March 31, 2017 Friday

Mayor Thornhill and Lib Dems lash out after Momentum backs hospital petition

BYLINE: Emma Duggan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 442 words


A left-wing political group is backing calls for a new hospital to serve west
Hertfordshire.

Momentum - a grassroots organisation set up in the wake of Jeremy Corbyn's
election as Labour leader - has endorsed a petition that has gathered more than
10,000 signatures online.

Edith Glatter, a member of the New Hospital Campaign, started the appeal because
she believes plans to develop Watford General Hospital are unsustainable.

Online, the petition states that the site requires at least £100m of maintenance
and cannot be brought up to date.

Momentum Watford backed the campaign and tweeted that while Watford General
Hospital is "great", it is "struggling with demand".

But Watford Borough Council Liberal Democrats and Mayor Dorothy Thornhill have
interpreted the endorsement as an attack on Watford.

Dorothy Thornhill is a partner in the council-led Health Campus scheme, in which
work on the redevelopment of Watford General Hospital appears to have stalled.

Watford Borough councillor Glen Saffery said: "Labour on the council opposed key
decisions which helped secure our hospital's future - like the new road and the
use of the ex-Farm Terrace site as part of the Health Campus to allow the
hospital to expand.

"Now the Corbyn-supporting faction Momentum are encouraging residents to
campaign to move our hospital out of the borough altogether."

However Watford Labour group leader Nigel Bell called Cllr Saffrey's assertions
"total lies" and sought to distance his group members from the radical political
faction.

"It is a total lie that we opposed the road. I voted for it," said Cllr Bell.

"We've always been in favour of the hospital being in Watford. Momentum has
nothing to do with us in the Watford Labour Party."

Mayor Thornhill, who describes Momentum as Jeremy Corbyn's "fan club", said she
is not surprised by the endorsement.

She said: "Labour have tried to face both ways on the future of our hospital for
years - claiming to support Watford General while at the same time attempting to
block decisions which were needed to secure the hospital's future.

"It doesn't surprise me at all that their leader's own fan club are now backing
a petition to move the Hospital to another part of Hertfordshire."

The campaign online says: "We need a new hospital that everyone can get to,
which surveys have repeatedly shown patients want.

"The present hospital is in a congested corner of our area, next to the ground
of a Premier League football club.

"We want a new hospital on a central, accessible site between the three main
towns - Hemel Hempstead, St. Albans and Watford."

To sign the petition, visit: https://petition.parliament.uk/petitions/169500

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 June 20, 2003

A rich harvest of votes awaits the 'hospital candidate'
For years, politicians of all hues have traded on saving the local hospital. It
may be a far more potent political platform now, writes Mark Hennessy, Political
Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; HANLY REPORT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 829 words


Back in the 1980s, Fianna Fail's Mr Willie O'Dea did much for his popularity in
Limerick East when he opposed the then government's plans to close Barrington's
Hospital.

In last year's general election, a number of Independent TDs, such as
Cavan/Monaghan's Mr Paudge Connelly, won their seats having fought to defend
their local hospital.

In Wexford, Dr Liam Twomey attracted votes after he fought on a ticket demanding
better services in Wexford General Hospital and a cancer therapy unit for the
south-east.

Others, such as Dublin North Central's Mr Finian McGrath, caused the major
parties grief after their Independent Health Alliance ticket attracted the
attention of voters.

Given such success, the latest draft of the Hanly report, which has been seen by
The Irish Times, will provide much food for thought for politicians, serving and
budding.

The current number of hospitals, big and small, failed to impress the taskforce,
which warned they had developed to cope with local needs rather than serve a
coherent national plan.

Too many services are being offered in too many places. Instead, large hospitals
should work closely with smaller ones in their areas in a team effort.

"A repeated concern expressed was the influence of politics, whether local or
national (political, medical or other) on decision-making in the health services
generally and hospital services in particular.

"Many of those who spoke to us, from all parts of the health system, indicated
serious dissatisfaction that some of the more important decisions about the
location and type of service provision appeared to be made on the basis of
narrow sectional interests rather than on objective measures of service need
quality and/or patient safety," says the taskforce.

If implemented, the recommendations would mean that medical departments, such as
maternity, accident and emergency units, in smaller hospitals will be closed and
centralised in "centres of excellence".

"Only those hospitals with the volume and complexity of cases to support the
required teams of seven consultants in each of medicine, surgery and anaesthesia
will be able to maintain acute services as non-consultant hospital doctors'
working hours reduce," says the report.

The staffing and patient levels set by Hanly will provoke fears in places such
as Mallow and Bantry general hospitals in Co Cork, which have, respectively,
just 23 and 22 medical staff of all grades.

The Minister for Health is banking on his belief that voters will tolerate
disruption and new ways if they are convinced that services will be improved.

Patients simply want to get well, he believes.

However, local hospitals hold a special place in the hearts of the public in
major towns, often standing as a mark of their distinction over their less
fortunate neighbours.

Interfering with them is a high-risk political strategy. The closure of the
North Infirmary in Cork in the 1980s, for instance, created a wound that, for
some, has still not healed.

Monaghan Hospital's difficulties were at the top of the local political agenda
long before the death of baby Bronagh Livingstone brought the issue into the
national headlines.

Her mother, Denise, was turned away from Monaghan Hospital last December. The
baby died in an ambulance on the way to Cavan Hospital.

The hospital's maternity unit was closed when the North Eastern Health Board
refused to allow the resident obstetrician-gynaecologist, Mr Alphonsus Kennedy,
to renew his malpractice insurance.

Thrust into the middle of a national controversy, the Minister for Health warned
that consultants had to see a minimum level of cases to keep their skills up to
standard.

Monaghan has three surgical consultants, supported by seven junior doctors; two
medical consultants backed by eight junior doctors, along with three
anaesthetists and one radiologist, without junior doctor back-up.

So far, Monaghan locals in need of medical care remain unconvinced that their
lot has been improved by the reduction in services in their own patch.

Cavan was operating at full capacity before they arrived in the waiting rooms,
they complain. "Some Cavan people are even giving out that they are coming,"
says one TD.

The Minister for Health is, perhaps, banking that the National Hospitals Office
in the proposed Health Services Executive will be in the frontline when hard
decisions are announced.

Certainly, the formation of the new agency will make it more difficult for the
Government and local politicians to support the retention of services in the
hospital down the road.

However, the buck will still stop with him. The "dexterity" of politicians in
tight corners should never be underestimated, Mr Martin declared in Government
Buildings on Wednesday.

It is a skill that he will need if he is to force radical and necessary change
on the health service and still emerge as a viable political figure from the
Department of Health.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 The Irish Times


                              286 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    October 18, 1988, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Mentally disabled can vote, court rules

BYLINE: (CP)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   OTTAWA (CP) - Tens of thousands of mentally disabled citizens will be
eligible to vote in the federal election Nov. 21 as a result of a Federal Court
of Canada ruling yesterday.

Madam Justice Barbara Reed struck down as unconstitutional an Elections Act
provision that has always denied the vote to anyone "who is restrained of his
liberty of movement . . . by reason of mental disease."

The ruling was expected because the federal government did not intend to fight
the application brought by the Canadian Disability Rights Council.

About 20,000 people living in institutions are labelled mentally retarded and
denied a vote, officials say. However, up to 50,000 people could be affected
since those placed in institutions for mental illness are also denied a vote.

Chief Electoral Officer Jean-Marc Hamel said shortly after the ruling was handed
down that instructions are going out to returning officers across the country on
how the vote is to be taken in mental hospitals.

Vote in hospital

If the patients were in the hospital Oct. 4 - that is, 10 days before
enumeration began - and will be there on election day, they would be treated as
residents of the riding in which the hospital is located and could vote at a
polling station in the hospital.

Short-term patients would be able to vote in their home riding, by proxy if
necessary, he said.

Challenges to restrictive laws in Ontario and Manitoba resulted in mental
patients being able to vote in the last provincial elections in those provinces.

All three federal political parties have favored giving mental patients the
right to vote. But an amendment to the Elections Act that would have done so
died on the House of Commons order paper when the election was called.

But federal lawyer Eric Bowie told Reed the government would not contest the
council's application or try to defend the restriction.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              287 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

Oppn Attacks KCR Govt on Move to Shift Chest Hospital

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, Feb. 3 -- Cutting across political lines, various political parties
on Monday took on chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for his decision to shift
the chest hospital from Erragadda to Vikarabad and to shift the State
Secretariat there.

While TDP leaders visited the chest hospital, YSR Congress cadre staged a
protest there against the government's decision to shift the hospital.

The city units of Left parties demanded that a general hospital be built on the
chest hospital premises at Erragadda instead of shifting the hospital to
Vikarabad since the existing general hospitals in the city are not able to
handle the ever-increasing number of patients.

Representatives of CPI, CPM, CPI- ML (New Democracy), All India Forward Bloc,
Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI) discussed the government's decision at a
meeting held here on Monday.

Speaking to mediapersons later, CPI city president D Sudhakar faulted the
government's decision to shift the Secretariat in the name of Vaastu. "In a
secular country, how can they divert state funds in the name of Vaastu?" he
wondered.

Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and his Telangana counterpart
K Chandrasekhar Rao have spent Rs 175 crore in the past 10 months to make
changes as per Vaastu, Sudhakar said and announced that a delegation of Left
leaders would visit the hospital premises on Wednesday.

M Srinivas Rao, CPM city secretariat member, said the government was doing real
estate business by selling lands and government offices, and neglecting the
problems people are facing at present.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 28, 2009 Friday

Lib Dems would make trusts match lowest operation costs

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 417 words


All hospitals would be forced to reduce the costs of operations to the lowest
tariff in the country under controversial plans by the Liberal Democrats to cut
waste in the public services.

As Britain prepares for the tightest spending round in a generation, the Lib Dem
leader, Nick Clegg, today outlines plans to rein in hospital trusts that are
using their monopoly position to drive up costs. The plan will be seen as one of
the most radical ideas of any of the main political parties to save public
money.

Under the Lib Dem plan, hospital trusts would be forced to charge the same rate
for operations as the cheapest and most efficient hospitals in the country.

Clegg said: "It is a very specific, but rather radical idea, of saying that all
hospital tariffs under the 'payment by results' system should match the most
efficient tariffs in the hospital system. We think that would save about £2bn a
year."

He admitted the plan would be controversial because many hospitals would say
they could not compete with those that reduced costs by performing many more
procedures. He said the policy would be flexible and standards would not suffer.
"There has to be suppleness in it," he said. "We are not going to be stupid
about it." But it was important that the most "cost-effective tariff", which
guaranteed clinical standards, should be the benchmark.

"The hospital trusts are in a very, very powerful negotiating position because
they are basically, not withstanding a few little treatment centres here and
there, operating as a monopoly. The primary care trusts (which commission
treatment) have got very little leverage."

Savings from the new system would be reallocated to other areas of the NHS. "You
have got this very lopsided misallocation of priorities in the NHS," he said.
"You have got a huge amount of money. . . and yet you have other parts of the
NHS which are Cinderella services and are crying out for money. "

Clegg will today launch a website (nickclegg.com/intheknow) where public-sector
workers can submit ideas on how to save money by cutting waste. Speaking ahead
of the launch, he said: "I hear day in day out people say this is frigging
ridiculous we are wasting ridiculous amounts of money on a strategic health
authority that shouldn't exist.

"I am inviting people in the public sector . . . to come forward with
suggestions about where money can be cut so that it can either be spent more
sensibly elsewhere or if necessary in the long run, to plug the whole in the
public finances."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Bridlington Free Press

                                 July 31, 2008

MP Greg Knight: "It is a battle we must win"

LENGTH: 171  words


"I'M HERE today for the same reason you are here. I want to see services at this
hospital saved.

"It's very rare to get an issue which unites people of all political parties,
and people who have no political views, young and old, nurses, doctors and
staff, businessmen, retired people, residents and tourists.

"But this is the issue that has done it, the future of Bridlington Hospital.

"Quite frankly, we should not need to be here today. We have been badly let down
by hospital trust managers. I have no confidence whatsoever in hospital trust
managers and if they had any shred of decency they would all resign.

"Even if Alan Johnson votes with the trust, that hospital services should be
downgraded, I would say to you don't lose heart.

"The matter does not end there.

"As long as these bricks and mortar remain, there is a valid campaign to sustain
this hospital, to expand services.

"This is a battle that won't be over when Alan Johnson makes his decision.

"The battle will go on and I can assure you, it is a battle we must win."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                   October 24, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

The Bloc and the hospital: Did separatist MPs really mean to stir up a race
fuss?

BYLINE: TERRANCE WILLS; THE GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 917 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


The publicity campaign financed by separatist MPs in Quebec to restore full
services at Eastern Ontario's lone francophone teaching hospital is stirring up
a race fuss on the eve of the Quebec election campaign.

Critics of the Bloc Quebecois's $ 10,000 gift to Ottawa's Hopital Montfort
contend that the French-English controversy playing on the airwaves and in
letters to the editor is exactly the result the separatists intended.

And that's so especially now, they add, when Premier Lucien Bouchard is trying
so hard to connect Quebec Liberal leader Jean Charest in the voter's mind with
Ontario Premier Mike Harris, who is seen as the villain in the severe
contraction of services at Montfort.

The Bloc decided this month not to donate directly to the legal fund the
French-language hospital is collecting to fight the sharply reduced role forced
on it by an Ontario government commission. Rather, Bloc MPs chose to finance an
ad campaign in Quebec about Montfort's troubles and its fundraising efforts to
fight the cutbacks.

In the face of criticism that the Bloc's real purpose is to stir resentment
against Harris and the rest of Canada to benefit Bouchard's Parti Quebecois
candidates, Bloc leader Gilles Duceppe insisted the whole idea is to help
Ontario's francophones.

"It is helping them to collect more money," Duceppe said in an interview about
his party's ad-financing donation. "We made an agreement with them (the hospital
authorities). They will have publicity, advertising, in a lot of newspapers with
that money to collect more money. That was the purpose and they were perfectly
in full agreement with that. And they are not sovereignists, eh? Mrs. Lalonde is
not a sovereignist."

Federalist Gisele Lalonde is a feisty volunteer spokesman for the effort to
raise $ 500,000 nationwide to counter in the courts the squeeze put on Montfort
by the Ontario Health Services Restructuring Commission. So far, about $ 200,000
has been raised to argue that the "amputation" - as Lalonde describes it - of
the hospital's services violates Franco-Ontarians' rights under the Charter of
Rights and Freedoms.

Lalonde makes no apology for accepting the Bloc's money to pay for
Montfort-designed ads in Quebec, nor does Liberal Senator Jean-Robert Gauthier,
chairman of the hospital campaign. "The Bloc is a political party and we are not
naive that we don't think there is a political intention here, but as chairman,
I don't ask donors if they have vested interests of some kind," Gauthier said by
phone.

On the other hand, Faye Sullivan-Stafford, president of Outaouais Alliance, the
English-rights group, has assailed the Bloc's donation as a suspicious stunt.
"Of course, the Montfort deserves our support - it's a valuable institution that
deserves protection. However, when this support comes from factions that endorse
the infringement of basic minority rights, we have to be careful," she said.

"If the BQ is so concerned about the state of the official-language minorities
in Canada, why does it continue to endorse the mistreatment of Quebec's own
linguistic minority?" Sullivan-Stafford demanded. "I'm sure one of the hospitals
in Quebec could have used that money just as effectively."

That comment made Duceppe bristle. "I don't know where those people are living.
The Royal Victoria, the Montreal General are full hospitals working perfectly,"
he said. "All the francophones outside of Quebec would be happy to have the kind
of hospitals the anglophones have in Montreal."

But the Bloc's indignation has not stemmed the attack on its style of charity.
"These are the same guys who have treated Franco-Ontarians as 'dead ducks' and
have said 'Pouf! Francophones (will disappear)," Liberal House leader Don
Boudria said. "So, I don't know what one should think of their gift. They've
just discovered Franco-Ontarians, when not so long ago they were telling us they
were dead."

Ottawa Vanier Liberal MP Mauril Belanger added: "To run a publicity campaign
during an election campaign, I think that is using a difficult and delicate
situation for political and partisan ends. I find it regrettable."

Duceppe dismissed these criticisms. "Why are Mr. Belanger and Mr. Boudria
denouncing us for helping Franco-Ontarians? I think they are showing their
incompetence on the issue and their hypocrisy."

The Ottawa Citizen has run several letters to the editor on the donation, some
for, some against, and nearly all marked by extravagant rhetoric. Sample: "What
we are witnessing is one more advance in the step-by-step program for French
dominance in all public institutions in Eastern (for now) Ontario," warned Jim
Redfern of Carleton Place.

The Citizen pitched in yesterday with its own editorial. "The fight to keep the
only francophone teaching hospital in Ontario open has become a political fight,
pure and simple," opined the editorial board, which earlier this year crusaded -
unsuccessfully - against the appointment of David Levine to oversee Ottawa's
redesigned hospital structure because he was a onetime PQ candidate and worked
for Bouchard's government in New York. "By cozying up to the Bloc it will
alienate those who, rightly, believe the real issue of access to health care has
been overtaken by a game of political point-scoring."

Montfort supporters are quick to point out that the real issue is access to
health care, all right - but in both official languages where numbers warrant.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                            December 6, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

NDP's hospital plan shows Saskatoon bias

BYLINE: Lloyd E. Wilson, The Leader-Post

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 645  words


In its recent throne speech, the provincial government indicated a new
children's hospital would be constructed in Saskatoon, and I'm not very happy
about it.

The construction of another hospital in Saskatoon will give them four hospitals,
compared to Regina's two. That's a ratio of two-to-one and in a city only
20-per-cent larger than Regina it doesn't seem very fair.

Also, at the present time, specialist doctors in Saskatoon outnumber those in
Regina nearly three-to-one. Adding another hospital there will only make the
problem worse.

I would really like to see local politicians lobby the provincial government to
get a third hospital for Regina.

Perhaps Lorne Calvert's NDP government should be reminded that the NDP under Roy
Romanow, closed a Regina hospital nearly a decade ago. Romanow was faced with
health-care cuts, however, the decision to close the Plains Health Centre was
pure politics and bordered on gutlessness.

A decision by Romanow to close one of Saskatoon's hospitals probably would have
resulted in political suicide. He calculated he could make health-care cuts in
Regina with the least amount of political fallout. Talk about taking the Regina
electorate for granted and taking all of us for a bunch of fools and suckers.

Does the NDP government really think it can continue to treat Regina as a
second-class city and escape any political damage? If so, it is badly mistaken.

The tragedy of the Romanow years was the fact he was the best premier Saskatoon
ever had, and it would appear Calvert is following in his footsteps.

I suspect the Calvert inner cabinet is made up primarily of Saskatoon MLAs, with
the Regina MLAs on the outside looking in and Calvert's Saskatoon colleagues
holding the "trump card", in any decisions being made.

The NDP government closed one of our hospitals, and Reginans want it back.

As far as health-care funding is concerned, dollars have been spent in Saskatoon
and pennies in Regina. That is completely unacceptable.

It would appear politics is involved, with Saskatoon replacing Regina as the key
to an NDP victory in Saskatchewan elections. The NDP thinks Regina is an NDP
stronghold, consequently, it doesn't have to work as hard. Unfortunately, for
Regina, the Saskatoon electorate rolls with the flow in each election, so
Saskatoon receives more attention. That's pure politics and pretty disgusting.

Calvert talks of Prime Minister Paul Martin playing political games over the
equalization payments.

Unfortunately for Calvert, that's the pot calling the kettle black. The premier
is no stranger to political manoeuvres, bribing the Saskatoon electorate with
some of Regina's tax dollars.

There is a bias towards Saskatoon, not only in politics, but in the world of
business and commerce as well, and has existed for many years. I think small "p"
and big "p" politics are behind it.

If the Calvert government is prepared to give Saskatoon "X" number of dollars
for health care, it had better be prepared to give an equal amount to Regina, or
there is going to be hell to pay at the next provincial election.

In summation, I'm disappointed in the announcement by the Calvert government to
construct a children's hospital in Saskatoon. There exists even now, a great
disparity in health-care services provided by the two cities and the problem
will only magnify.

The NDP stole a Regina hospital a decade ago and I would like to see it
returned. If Saskatoon can have four hospitals, surely in hell's half acre
Regina can have three.

For the Calvert government, it is a matter of setting political priorities. It
would probably say another hospital in Regina would be too much money, not
saying, however, that the money would best be spent bribing and manipulating the
Saskatoon electorate. Then politicians wonder why the public at large is so
cynical about them. A person doesn't have to look very far.

Lloyd E. Wilson

Regina

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2005 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Detail lacking on both sides

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 874 words


Government leaders conventionally avoid televised debates to deny their
opponents a place on the same podium. Prime Minister Kevin Rudd deserves praise
for bringing on the health policy debate yesterday. He may be disappointed that
it is hard to score a victory in this type of debate, despite the advantage of
having more policy in the public arena than Opposition Leader Tony Abbott. But
Mr Rudd made a good case for the need for fundamental healthcare reform and was
able to take a more positive stance than Mr Abbott, who had few policy
principles of his own to talk about and spent most of his time criticising the
Rudd government's policy.

Mr Abbott, with five years as health minister in the Howard government under his
belt, was able to do this to good effect, and landed more verbal punches than
the Prime Minister. This is an important part of the opposition's role but the
voters want better healthcare services and will be looking for practical
policies and positive solutions as the election draws nearer, not just negative
attacks on the government's policy.

In fact, there are significant gaps in the policies on both sides. The
government wants to reverse the public hospital funding split from the current
40:60 commonwealth-states mix to 60:40 to give the commonwealth the dominant
share, and to fund local hospital networks directly to cut out inefficient state
bureaucrats. But the states would still run the hospitals, since the
commonwealth has no experience in doing this, and Mr Rudd waffled badly when
asked how this would "end the blame game" -- a key goal of the reforms. He was
evasive on whether the government would tighten proposed private health
insurance rebate means testing, which is stalled in the Senate.

Mr Rudd 's laboured invitations to Mr Abbott to join him and the states to
reform and improve the healthcare system for "working families" rang hollow
against the background of his peremptory treatment of the premiers in what is
supposed to be a shared Council of Australian Governments reform Â­exercise. He
also had to exempt small rural hospitals from activity-based funding, as the
Brumby government has done in Victoria, and was forced to defend the claim that
MrAbbott as health minister had "ripped $1 billion" out of public hospitals by
resorting to a line-by-line recital from the 2002-2003 budget.

Mr Abbott made a good case that this claim is at best a half truth based on a
selective reading of the budget. He also made a convincing case that the
government's plan won't "end the blame game" on public hospitals but failed to
explain how his proposed return to local hospital boards would do so, given the
persistence of split funding and past experience that such boards were
ineffective and stacked with local political supporters. The Opposition Leader
had to resort too often to broad generalities in the absence of settled policy,
though he did appear to commit the coalition to 3500 new hospital beds should it
win government. He floundered a little in defending his own record as health
minister, which is unsurprising as the coalition did allow the commonwealth's
share of public hospital funding to fall behind population growth and responded
tactically to healthcare crises rather than try to come up with the kind of
strategic reform plan the Rudd government - to its credit - is developing. What
we now need to know from the government is how it plans to control the growth in
healthcare costs. The policy for primary healthcare and integrating primary care
with acute care in hospitals is still to come. So is the policy concerning the
interface between the public and private hospitals, which could exert strong
price competition on the state-run hospitals if the commonwealth as dominant
funder were game to exploit this lever. Mr Rudd's backflip on case mix for rural
hospitals - while sensible - shows the pitfalls in advancing major reform of
such a complex area of policy.

What we need from Mr Abbott is much more detailed policy on health across the
board. At present we have some good Â­intentions and a few policies such as
increasing public hospital beds, opposing means testing on health insurance
rebates and local hospital boards. Mr Abbott needs to come up with a
Â­convincing plan of his own for ending the blame game and controlling costs in
a more sophisticated way than merely starving the states, as the coalition did
in government. He has been leader for only a few months so can't really be
blamed but the coalition has been in opposition for nearly 2 \xC2½ years and
should be able to offer more than this.

Mr Rudd showed himself across the detail but somewhat wooden and prone to
getting lost in detail and tensing up when on the back foot. None of this
surprises. As a first-term government the election should be Labor's to lose but
Mr Rudd's Â­colleagues will want him to sharpen his debating skills before the
election campaign. Mr Abbott may have had the better of the verbal jousting but
the voters want positive policies and Â­solutions, not just attacks on the
government. The coalition has much to do here, not just in healthcare but across
the board, if it is to offer itself as a credible alternative government in the
election expected later this year.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2010 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                           October 21, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 373  words


FED-UP members of campaign group Support Stafford Hospital, which was launched
to fight services being downgraded, have quit. They may now set up a new
separate organisation, the Newsletterunderstands.

Five committee members, including chairman Jane Cannell and borough councillors
Ann Edgeller and Chris Baron, have resigned amid concerns the group has become
"too political".

But the claim has been strenuously denied by group founder Cheryl Porter, who
says they will never give up fighting for Stafford's hospital.

The group was founded four years ago by Mrs Porter, Karen Howell and Sue
Hawkins, who has since left, initially to save the A&E department. It gathered
major support, with tens of thousands joining a mile-long march in the town. The
group also camped in the grounds of County Hospital last year in protest at
services being downgraded.

But Chris Baron told the Newsletter this week: "We had always worked together
cross-party but in recent times it has been becoming quite party political from
some, although not the committee.

"For me it was about trying to get the best for the people and I want to
continue to do that.

"It is likely we will set up another group. We have a Facebook page, called
Champion County Hospital, which gives information about the hospital and the
services."

Jane Cannell said the five, including SSH treasurer Graham Powell and committee
member Mandy Stanley, were concerned about the political approach.

"We have always agreed that SSH is a non-political group However, over the past
12 months it has become apparent that some members wish to pursue a political
approach."

Support Stafford Hospital's Facebook page includes a number of posts criticising
the Conservative Government.

Mrs Porter said: "I was shocked by their resignations to be honest. We are
apolitical. We have always been a campaign group and we are fighting the
Government and its policies.

"As a group SSH has not changed. We will keep fighting. The job is not
finished."

Mrs Howell added: "We need a proper open meeting with our members, but I think
we continue to go forward as a campaign group, as we have always done. After the
elections, we took some time out but we will continue as before. The committee
has done good work."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Pakistan's Khyber news TV 1200 gmt 3 Nov 11

LENGTH: 562 words


The following is a summary of the 1200 gmt bulletin consisting of news from
Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), aired by Islamabad-based
private Pakistani television news channel AVT Khyber News on 3 November.

A. News headlines

B. News in details

1. 0122 NADRA [National Database Registration Authority] opens new office in
Landi Kotal Sub-Division of Khyber Agency. The NADRA general manager in Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa [PK] opens the office at a function today. The local people have
recently called on the political administration to open NADRA office in Landi
Kotal in order to resolve the problems of the locals in receiving identity
cards. Security has improved in Landi Kotal with the efforts of local residents,
security forces and the political administration. Meanwhile, Khyber Agency's
assistant political administration meets the local tribal elders and heads of
political parties to discuss ways to ensure security in the agency. Video shows
correspondent giving details over the phone from the agency.

2. 0544 The political administration in Miranshah, North Waziristan launch
search operation at Miranshah's headquarter hospital. The political
administration members take notice of absent doctors and other staff in the
hospital. The political administration says they will take action against the
doctors and staff not present on duty. They say that they will send a report to
the FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Areas] Secretariat about the doctors'
absence in the hospitals in Miranshah. Meanwhile, the para-medical staff in
Miranshah hospital stage peaceful protests against the political administration
and other officials saying that they do not receive their salaries on time.
Video shows correspondent giving details over the phone from the area.

3. 1016 Residents of Bara Sub-Division of Khyber Agency call on government to
reopen all the roads in Bara, ease curfew and restrict the military operation in
the area ahead of Id-ul Adha. The residents of Bara say the government has not
told them when they will end the military operation in the area. The local
residents and representatives of tribal elders say they need to buy cattle and
other stuff for Id-ul Adha. The local people are faced with many challenges,
because of curfew and military operation. They say that their children's
education and health care have been badly affected, because of curfew. The local
people call on government to provide aid packages for them and lift the ban on
cattle trading in Khyber Agency on the eve of Id-ul Adha. Government has banned
cattle trading in the area, because of cattle being smuggled to Afghanistan.
Video shows correspondent giving details over the phone from the agency.

4. 1550 People in Mohmand Agency are making preparations for Id-ul Adha.
Traditional cattle picnic is also being held in Mohmand agency on the occasion
of Id, after years of delay. Traders says cattle prices have gone up in the
agency, because the government has raised taxes on cattle. Meanwhile, plans are
under way to repatriate hundreds of displaced families to Mohmand Agency. The
residents of Mohmand have decided to mark first day of Id-ul Adha together with
Saudi Arabia. Video shows correspondent giving details over the phone from the
agency.

[End of the bulletin]

Duration: 21 minutes

Source: AVT Khyber TV, Islamabad, in Pashto 1200gmt 03 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Pakistan's Khyber news TV 1200 gmt 19 Oct 11

LENGTH: 427 words


The following is a summary of the 1200 gmt bulletin consisting of news from
Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), aired by Islamabad-based
private Pakistani television news channel AVT Khyber News on 18 October.

A. News headlines

B. News in details

1. 0123 Residents of North Waziristan have decided to stage protests against
long power outages in the area. The tribal elders, political parties and
businessmen have spread pamphlets and made announcement through mosques, calling
on people to take part in the protests against power outage. The South
Waziristan residents warn that they will close the supply route linked to
Afghanistan, unless power supply is resumed. There is lack of water in schools,
mosques and hospital in North Waziristan because of power outage. Video shows
correspondent giving details over the phone from the area.

2. 0511 People in Orakzai Agency complain about lack of medical staff and
doctors in government hospitals. The local people are faced with many
challenges, because of lack of doctors in several sub-divisions of the agency.
The local residents transfer their patients to other hospitals in Pakistan.
There is only one doctor for around 30,000 people in the agency. The Orakzai
Agency residents say government has not renovated around 30 hospitals destroyed
by insurgents in Orakzai Agency. Many schools also remain destroyed in the
agency. Video shows correspondent giving details from the agency.

3. 1025 Power outages have reached 23 hours out of every 24 hours in Landi
Kotal, Khyber Agency. Traders and shopkeepers' businesses have been affected,
because of lack of power. The local people have several times discussed the
problem with the political administration and Members of National Assembly [MNA]
from Khyber Agency, but they failed to resolve the problem. Meanwhile, there is
lack of specialist doctors in Landi Kotal hospitals. The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
governor has promised to employ new doctors in government hospitals in Landi
Kotal, but the locals say the provincial governor has not fulfilled his promise.
Video shows correspondent giving details over the phone from the agency.

4. 1634 There are reports of widespread smuggling and abduction in tribal areas.
The political administration is also involved in widespread corruption.
Government officials have links with smugglers and abductors in the areas close
to Pakistan-Afghan border. Video shows correspondent reporting from the area.

[End of the bulletin]

Duration: 20 minutes

Source: AVT Khyber TV, Islamabad, in Pashto 1200gmt 19 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                     Simcoe

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Coalition calls for health care talk in vote

BYLINE: STAFF, bareditor@simcoe.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 328  words


ONTARIO - Ontarians need to talk about health care with Oct. 6 provincial
election candidates, says Ontario Health Coalition director Natalie Mehra.
"While promises to improve access to home care are welcome, all political
parties' platforms are lacking details on how the parties will deal with the
severe shortfall of hospital beds across Ontario," said Mehra. "The McGuinty
government deserves credit for the improvements they have made in access to
family doctors, nurse-led clinics, community health centres and family health
teams. They have also reduced wait times for a number of surgeries and
treatments.

"But there is a severe shortage of acute care hospital beds and access to
longer-term care for seniors both in hospitals and in the community is poor and
inequitable." She added after two decades of health-care restructuring - which
began in the 1990s - there are still half as many hospital beds than there were,
18,500 fewer than there were in 1990. Ontario's hospital occupancy rate is 98
per cent, far above occupancy rates in the rest of the industrialized world. Bed
shortages contribute not only to emergency-room backlogs, but also cancelled
surgeries, high infection rates and longer waits for care. More than 23,900
people are waiting for a long-term care home bed and more than 10,000 are
waiting for home care, the coalition noted. Ontario's Liberals have increased
long-term care beds, but bed cuts still challenge health care workers, Mehra
said. "This election, Ontarians need to push our political parties for clear
commitments on the key health care issues. Will they stop privatization and
protect public, non-profit health care? Will they commit to keeping small and
rural hospitals' acute care and emergency services open?" she said. "Will they
restore closed hospital beds? What concrete steps will they take to improve
democratic governance and public accountability?" More about the coalition is
online at www.ontariohealthcoalition.ca.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lib Dems breaking long-held charity rule;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 251 words


It has been the rule that no political party will seek to use local charities to
gain political advantage over any other.

Sadly, it now appears that the local Liberal Democrats have decided to break
another promise by claiming that they are in some way involved in and
responsible for supporting and protecting the future of our local hospital.

The League of Friends of Crewkerne Hospital was set up many years ago to fulfil
these roles and continues to do so to this day. It is a charitable, non-
political organisation looking to support the whole community and goes about its
business quietly.

As a trustee of the charity, I can state that to my knowledge neither the
League, nor the hospital, is receiving any direct support, financial or
otherwise, from any of our local Liberal Democrat politicians or their party. To
try and infer otherwise in their election leaflets is simply misleading and
untrue.

The League remains determined to stay nonpolitical and fight the hospital's
corner with the NHS. Trustees have attended a number of meetings with the local
PCT to discuss and hopefully influence the reorganisation of the NHS in this
area.

We know we are strong enough to be listened to, particularly as we will be
giving almost £100,000 to the hospital this year alone.

We depend on support from everyone, regardless of their political allegiance and
are not here to provide 'brownie points' to anyone seeking to influence the
voters - the hospital is far too important for that.

Tony Foot Misterton, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 11, 2011 Friday

Security of doctors, medical staff demanded

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 129

LENGTH: 226  words


Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) on Thursday demanded security of doctors and
medical staff demanded Dr. M. Idress Adhi, PMA Karachi President said the PMA
has always demanded for security of doctors during their performance of duties,
particularly in the public sector hospitals. The Doctors need mental peace and
conducive environment for better discharges of duties equal to providing solace
to suffering humanity. But, it appears that now and then the hospital
administration have failed to bring about discipline in maintenance of working
conditions that obviously, resulting in several incidents when doctors are
beaten and maltreated either by attendants of the patients or the political
workers.

One such incident appeared about a couple of days back when despite the security
guards appointed one male attendant carrying weapon with him entered into labour
room of Civil Hospital Karachi and threatened the lady doctors and women in
labour. The incidence was reported to high ups but nothing concrete has so far
been done for provision of security of doctors. The PMA demands that govt.
should look into this grievous matter and order the concerned hospital
administrators to take stern measures for protection of duty doctors of public
sector hospital and remove the political influence and interference of political
parties from these hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                             August 24, 2015 Monday

LETTERS: Bandhs violate child rights

BYLINE: The Himalayan Times

LENGTH: 488  words


This is with reference to the news story "Use of children in protests slammed
(http://thehimalayantimes.com/kathmandu/use-of-children-in-protests-slammed/)"
(THT, Aug. 18, Page 2). Using children in political rallies and  demonstrations
and sit-ins to be organized by the political parties to  get their demands
fulfilled is illegal and such practice is against the  child rights. This is a
kind of child rights abuse. This kind of  activities not only affect the
mentality of the children but also risk  their lives. Children are used in any
forms of political activities  because they do not know what is right and wrong,
and they also have no  idea why such rallies are taken out by the political
parties.

They  are easily influenced by the local surroundings and their mindset and
psychology are shaped by what happens in society. Studies have shown  that the
children in a volatile and violent society easily get involved  in crime or
violent activities after they grow up. So, the children  should be encouraged to
go to schools and to play games so that they  engage in education and sports.
Therefore, the concerns expressed by the  Central Child Welfare Board (CCWB) and
NHRC should be addressed by the  bandh enforcers.

The bandh enforcers should allow the  schools and colleges to open even during
the bandh or general strike as  they allow the press, ambulances and other
utility vehicles. They must  understand the fact that closure of the educational
institutions time  and again will not help fulfill their demands. Such act will
only  deteriorate the quality of education and teaching-learning environment.
Will the bandh enforcers listen to our voices? Closure of educational
institutions is a nonsense practice and it should be condemned by all  walks of
life.

Nishan Lal Joshi, Little Angels' School

Sanitation

Recently,  I got a chance to visit the Kathmandu Medical College for a few hours
and during that time I got an opportunity to know about the hospital  very well.
Everything is fine, except for the toilets. The doctors are  fine, and some
nurses need to be

trained on how to behave with the patients that will help to heal the pain of
the patients.

I  have heard about the ill practices of some nurses at Thapathali  Maternity
Hospital. But in comparison to Thapathali Maternity Hospital  the nurses at KMC
are more polite. Some of them need to be  professionally trained.

Moreover, the toilet in the  post-operation gyno ward is in a very sorry state.
I fear that such a  deplorable condition of the toilet can be a source of
spreading  infectious diseases within the hospital premises. Instead of healing
the  wounds, the toilets may encourage the spread of the source of  epidemics. I
would like to advise the hospital administration to make  the hospital toilets
clean and pay proper attention to the overall  sanitation of the hospital where
thousands of people visit every day.

Raman Adhikari, Jorpati

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                              May 14, 2007, Monday
                                  1ST Edition

More bodies recovered amidst political crisis;
INTERNATIONAL PAKISTAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 313 words


The death toll from the worst political violence in years in Pakistan rose to 36
after hospitals received more bodies, hospital officials said yesterday.

A political crisis threatening President General Pervez Musharraf exploded into
violence on Saturday when pro-government gunmen and opposition activists clashed
in Karachi, Pakistan's main sea port and commercial hub.

At least 28 people were reported killed in the violence.

But the death toll rose to 36 after more dead bodies arrived in four Karachi
hospitals and a police officer was killed by a mob on Saturday, police and
hospital officials said.

Karachi was largely peaceful at the time of going to press yesterday but a group
of about 100 people had blocked a street with burning tyres and stones in
Jamshed Quarters neighbourhood.

Traffic was thin on many Karachi roads, and most shops and restaurants, which
are usually busy with people eating breakfast in the early morning, were closed.

On Saturday, gunmen with assault rifles traded fire among bungalows and concrete
apartment blocks in the city of 15 million, a major port and home to Pakistan's
stock market. Shipping containers and immobilised trucks blocked streets and men
brandished rifles and handguns against a backdrop of burning cars and buses.

The attacks trapped ousted Chief Justice Ift-ikhar Mohammed Chaudhry at the
Karachi airport, unable to attend what organisers hoped to be the largest rally
yet calling for Chaudhry's reinstatement and for Musharraf to step down.

Musharraf loyalists insist that the president remains popular despite resentment
of his alliance with the Bush administration to pursue al Qaida.

But simmering resentment has been unleashed by Musharraf's removal of Chaudhry,
who had a reputation for challenging government misdeeds.

Critics accuse Musharraf of removing Chaudhry to protect the president's plan to
seek a new five-year term.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                   January 24, 2002 Thursday Ontario Edition

Clement sees 'politics' in delay of new hospital

BYLINE: Richard Brennan, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 485 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Says another Tory candidate played a part

Politics and the Premier's office played a direct role in delaying the
announcement of plans for a new Downsview hospital, Health Minister Tony Clement
said yesterday.

Clement was set to announce plans for the $244-million Humber River Regional
Hospital Tuesday when the Premier's office pulled the plug on the news
conference, saying cabinet had not given the project the okay.

"I guess I have a genuine disagreement with the staff of the Premier ...
(because) this is the kind of thing that typically has been done by the ministry
because no funding is attached until they have a (full) plan," Clement said.

Government insiders said Finance Minister Jim Flaherty asked for the
announcement to be called off. He and Clement are candidates in the leadership
race to replace Premier Mike Harris.

"What I felt peculiar about is that it is starting to get rolled into leadership
politics, which I find unfortunate," Clement said. "And so I have a genuine
disagreement with the Premier's office on how they see this thing."

Plans, yet to be approved by cabinet, call for one super-hospital on the former
Downsview air force base, replacing three existing Humber Regional sites. It's
expected the old Northwestern and York-Finch hospitals would close and the
former Humber Memorial would be turned into a limited-service day hospital.

Leading the charge for the new site is hospital president Rueben Devlin, who is
also president of the Ontario Conservative Party. His daughter Heather Devlin
works in Clement's ministry office as a policy adviser.

Clement said he wasn't accusing the Premier's office of playing politics with
the hospital announcement, "but I think somebody else is, another leadership
candidate." He stopped short of naming Flaherty.

When asked directly if leadership politics scuttled the announcement, Clement
said: "I think that's part of it. That's what I'm saying."

Minutes later, he tried to backtrack during a news conference with Harris, who
stood to the side and smiled.

"You said the Premier's office was interfering with the running of your
ministry," said one reporter, to which Clement said: "No, no, that's your take
on it."

Harris called the news conference to talk about his plans to take the fight for
more federal health-care dollars to a premiers' conference in Vancouver this
week.

New Democrat MPP Michael Prue (Beaches-East York) said the Tories seem "to be
imploding. I watch in constant amazement every day (at the) gaffes of all the
senior ministers."

Clement also defended paying his press secretary Gord Haugh $300,000 a year - up
to six times what other government communications assistants receive.

"He was offering a level of expertise in my office that I thought was required
to manage a $24 billion ministry," Clement said.

Asked whether the $300,000 was well spent, Harris said: "That's not for me to
judge."


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              302 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                              July 18, 2016 Monday

Protesters demand opening of hospital

BYLINE: Mohammed Zaatari

LENGTH: 566 words


Facility in Shebaa completed in 2009 but kept shut due to political disputes

Hundreds of protesters demonstrated Sunday in the southern border town of Shebaa
to demand the opening of a UAE-funded hospital, as sources said Hezbollah had
opposed the move out of fear the facility would treat Syrian rebels from across
the border."We don't want to die on the roads like our friends and the sons of
this area have," read a sign held by one of the protesters during a
demonstration calling for the Khalifa bin Zayed Public Hospital to open.

The issue came into the spotlight after Lebanese Red Cross first-responder
Shaker Jamal Madi, 19, died on the way to the nearest hospital, which is located
some 20 kilometers away from Shebaa where the accident occurred.

A moment of silence was held for him during the protest, before his uncle Nidal
Madi gave a fiery speech. "Our roads are neglected and paved with the blood of
our loved ones, while the people who should be listening to us remain deaf," he
said. "We have rights to institutions and we want them all. ... We give them 10
days to open and activate the hospital or they will hear our cries even louder."

Despite the area's dire need for a hospital, sources say security considerations
prevent one opening.

Around two years ago, wounded militants from a Syrian opposition group were
snuck over the frontier from the Syrian villages of Beit Jin and Erneh. The
wounded were smuggled into Lebanon on mules. Syrian regime and opposition forces
have clashed intermittently in these villages.

Hezbollah is concerned that if the hospital treats Syrian opposition militants
it would become a headquarters for the Syrian rebels, turning it into a "new
Arsal," according to sources from the area. For several years, militants
belonging to the Nusra Front and Daesh (ISIS) have been holed in the northeast
border region around the town of Arsal, and the town has been used as a safe
haven on numerous occasions.

During the protest, Shebaa Mayor Mohammad Saab read a statement by Health
Minister Wael Abu Faour to the protesters tackling the issue.

Abu Faour explained that despite all attempts to open the hospital, "political
requests came up as a result of security considerations to slow down in
launching the hospital because of fears that were based on cautiousness against
a repetition of events that have happened in other Lebanese areas."

However, locals deem the hospital vital for the area. "It has surgery rooms,
labs, clinics, 60 beds and other sections that are designed to improve the
area's health standard," explained the Future Movement political coordinator in
the area, Abdallah Abdallah. The hospital is on par with some of the best
hospitals in the Middle East, he added.

The hospital was established following Israel's 2006 war against Lebanon and was
financed through an Emirati endowment of $10 million. Construction was completed
in 2009, but the hospital did not open its doors due to political disputes.

Abdulhakeem Abdallah, chair of the committee charged with opening the hospital,
blamed the Finance Ministry for not providing the hospital with the necessary
guarantees.

"No official excuse will convince us or the locals," he said. "How is it that
another state is standing with us and cares about our suffering, while our state
is oblivious and the hospital remains unopened because of political tensions and
personnel disputes over seats?"

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2016 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            August 2, 1994, Tuesday

Around the South POLITICS Primary slugfest pits 2 wily pros

BYLINE: TOM BAXTER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 3

LENGTH: 581 words


Nashville - Tom Perdue brought a scorched-earth reputation with him when he left
Georgia for the first time and came here to run Republican Bill Frist's Senate
campaign. As the race enters its final days, he has surpassed all expectations.

Striking back at campaign ads he says were unfair, Perdue has blasted Frist's
chief opponent, Chattanooga builder Bob Corker, as "rotten on the inside," "a
coward" and "pond scum."

Corker, responding in a debate last week, chided Frist for hiring a "convicted
slanderer" - a somewhat overblown reference to Perdue's out-of- court settlement
with Public Service Commissioner Mac Barber. Frist distanced himself from his
consultant's words, saying that he wasn't sure what "pond scum" is - a remark
that probably won't help him overcome the rap that he lacks the common touch.

All this - plus the cat story, which we will get to later - has turned what
would have been a consolation-prize primary, to see who will face Sen. Jim
Sasser this fall, into the hottest political race Tennessee has seen in years.

With American politics headed in their present direction, this race is also
likely to be the pattern for many more to come: an expensive and increasingly
bitter contest between two political newcomers, coached by wily professionals.

Perdue's client is a Nashville heart-transplant surgeon, a graduate of Princeton
and Harvard Medical School whose father and brother founded Hospital Corporation
of America. Perdue, who made no secret of his dislike for Sen. Paul Coverdell
even when he was running his campaign, seems fond of Frist, comparing him with
his old boss, former Gov. George Busbee.

Frist seemed to hold an early edge in the six-man primary field, but Corker,
another amateur who has a Republican advantage in being from East Tennessee,
emerged from the pack and is running a close race as this Thursday's election
nears.

Corker is a self-made, just-folks millionaire who bears a striking resemblance
to Clayton Williams, the Texas oilman who lost to Ann Richards. He embodies "the
best of Claytie," says his consultant, Bill Kenyon. He ought to know - Kenyon
also ran Williams's 1990 campaign.

Even more than their first-time candidates, the two managers are a fascinating
contrast of styles: Perdue, the brooding, often enigmatic Georgian who
cultivates a bare-knuckles image, and Kenyon, the laid-back Texan who likes to
make people think he's not working as hard as he is.

Just to make sure the other side isn't asleep, Kenyon sometimes calls his
opponent's headquarters at odd hours to see whether anyone picks up the phone.
When he has called Frist's headquarters, he says, Perdue has answered.

Kenyon has countered Perdue's salvos with a light touch - and the cat story.

In a book he wrote about his career, "Transplant," Frist recounts how as a med
student he adopted cats from the pound and, after playing with them for a few
days, practiced transplants on them. The press and rival campaigns were aware of
the passage in the book, but no one knew quite what to do with it.

After Perdue took his shots, the Corker campaign issued a tongue-in- cheek
release which said, among other things, that Garfield had withdrawn his support
from Frist after reading his book. Since then, the cat story has traveled like
wildfire.

This race may come down to who spends the most money on television, as so many
do. But weird cat stories sometimes make a difference, too - and so do the
styles of campaign managers.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942160125

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              304 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                          February 24, 1993, Wednesday

Hospital votes to open books and meetings

BYLINE: By Macon Morehouse and Anne Rochell STAFF WRITERShospitals;
administration; meetings; private; public; policy; reform; law; violations;
gwinnett/county

SECTION: EXTRA; Section J; Page 1

LENGTH: 375 words


Gwinnett Hospital System (GHS) bowed to political pressure Tuesday when the
corporate board voted unanimously to meet openly and make its financial records
public.

"We're striving to work with all the political factions," Wayne Sikes, the
hospital system's financial chairman, said after the meeting. "Maybe we made a
mistake by saying we don't want to be a political animal."

GHS, formerly under a public authority whose members were appointed by the
County Commission, restructured last year to become a private, not- for-profit
corporation. Even though the hospital will continue to receive money from the
county to offset the cost of indigent care, it no longer has to abide by
Georgia's laws on open meetings and records.

"We don't have anything secret," said board member Jim E. Hinshaw Sr. after the
meeting.

A few Gwinnett County legislators and commissioners cried foul in recent months
over the new arrangement, saying the hospital gets county tax money but is not
answerable to the commission.

At the Capitol on Tuesday, efforts continued to require state hospitals to abide
by Georgia's sunshine laws:

A House subcommittee debated a bill sponsored by Rep. Vinson Wall (R-
Lawrenceville) that would make hospital systems such as Gwinnett meet in public
and allow access to their financial records. Before approving it, committee
members amended the bill to make it cover all hospitals that accept Medicare or
Medicaid.

Mr. Wall and Rep. Charles Bannister (R-Lilburn), who sits on GHS's corporate
board, co-sponsored a similar bill Tuesday.

"We're all working to the same goal, it appears," said Mr. Wall, who blasted Mr.
Bannister last week for spreading "trash" in the form of a memo that accused Mr.
Wall of waging a "personal vendetta" against GHS.

In other action, the board discussed plans to offer skilled nursing services for
older people at the GHS facility in Buford. The proposed 50- bed facility also
would provide sub-acute care, which is more intensive than a nursing home but
less expensive than a hospital stay. And there could be adult day care in the
future. Renovation of the building would cost about $ 3.1 million. The building
currently serves as an urgent-care center, and those services would remain.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH930690184

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              305 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 1, 2005, Friday

POLITICIANS MISSING POINT' ON SUPERBUG

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 324 words


Political point-scoring over MRSA means that policies to tackle the superbug are
failing to address the issue, experts said today.

The Government's focus on pleasing the public "means its policies are missing
the point", it was claimed.

Politicians have seized on public fears about the health implications of unclean
hospitals, but have failed to address the real problem of unclean hands among
hospital staff.

"With a General Election looming, all major political parties in the UK have
seized on public fears about the health implications of unclean hospitals to
fuel arguments over rising rates of infection with MRSA," it was claimed.

"This tit-for-tat political posturing has certainly helped keep health in the
public eye.

"But none of these policies reflect the real failure in UK hospitals:
non-adherence to basic infection control."

The comments were made in The Lancet medical journal, which said that the
Netherlands had "managed to virtually eliminate MRSA with a search and destroy
approach to infection control".

In an editorial, The Lancet said: "If there are numerous MRSA carriers visiting
health facilities, infection-control measures are unlikely to work.

"At the end of last year, Health Secretary John Reid set a new target to reduce
MRSA bloodstream infections by half by 2008, mainly through cleaning up
hospitals.

"But the document produced to back up this approach contains only scant mention
of the main vectors for MRSA transmission: the hands of health-care providers.

"Evidence shows that housekeeping programmes are unlikely to have an overall
effect on transmission of MRSA unless essential infection-control practices the
use of glove and hand-hygiene are prioritised.

"The attention on MRSA and hospital cleanliness has made hospital-acquired
infections an election issue.

"But the Government's focus on pleasing the public means its policies are
missing the point

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              306 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

Residents protest as BMC shuts down Malad hospital over 'crack in the wall'

BYLINE: Jyoti Shelar

SECTION: CIVIC

LENGTH: 415 words


Suspect civic body plans to sell the prime 5-acre plot to a private builder as
the hospital was hurriedly vacated and most of its facilities were shut down
overnight.

Malad residents are protesting the shutdown of SK Patil Hospital - one of the
oldest and most capacious BMC hospitals in the western suburbs - after the civic
body declared the building unsafe on Tuesday. Since the hospital stands on 5
acres of land in a prime location, they suspect that the BMC closed down the
hospital so it can sell the plot to a private builder.

According to the residents, the BMC's structural committee came on Monday and
inspected a crack in the building wall. "The committee was summoned simply
because the wall has developed a crack which can be repaired," said resident
Suryakant Nikam. The very next morning, over 25 patients were shifted to the
Shatabdi hospital in Kandivali.

On Tuesday, the hospital was hurriedly vacated and most of its facilities,
barring the Out Patient Department (OPD), were shut down. Though the hospital
does not have many facilities, almost all beds were occupied because of the
spurt in cases of viral flu, said Nikam. As the news of the shutdown spread,
residents gathered outside the hospital on Tuesday. A few residents along with
political party workers met Mayor Sunil Prabhu and told him that the hospital
was not dilapidated. BJP corporator Vinod Shelar, who accompanied the residents
to meet Prabhu, said that no one in the area had a clue of the hospital being
shut down. "They carried out the entire process in one night," he said.

"The building is completely fine. Instead of reviving the hospital, the civic
body has made it defunct to make way for private builders," said a resident
Sanath Mane, adding that the hospital's casualty services, x-ray and pharmacy
had been gradually discontinued over the past few years. "Political parties and
the BMC may give it up to any builder," said Mane.

The shutdown of the hospital has come as a big blow to the residents. "Over the
last year, only the OPD services were functional. Patients are admitted only for
minor ailments like fever. The civic body gradually shut down the facilities.
Locals don't have any faith in the team that declared the hospital unsafe," said
a resident.

The civic body has now appointed a team from IIT to carry out another survey of
the two-storey hospital. "We have asked for the IIT report to be submitted
within 7 days. The OPD will be functional only till we get the report," said
Prabhu.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 13, 1991, Sunday

Tories face rift over hospital; As health specialists pour scorn on the
Opposition's ideas for 'saving' the service, the Government faces internal
trouble over its changes

BYLINE: By DONALD MACINTYRE, Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 454 words


THE GOVERNMENT is facing a split within its ranks over plans for a
self-governing hospital trust which threatens to become the main issue in the
critical - and imminent - Kincardine and Deeside by-election.

Ian Lang, the Secretary of State for Scotland, is under pressure from his Health
Minister, Michael Forsyth, to approve the trust plan for the Foresterhill group
of hospitals in north Aberdeen, despite opposition from the Tory candidate in
the by-election.

Tory party managers could decide this week to move the writ for Kincardine and
Deeside, which the late Alick Buchanan-Smith held in 1987 by 2,063, and
Langbaurgh in Cleveland, held by 2,088, by the late Richard Holt. That would
allow the by-elections to take place on 7 November.

A senior constituency official at Langbaurgh said yesterday that it would have a
candidate by Monday evening and was expecting the by-election on that date. Some
ministers argue, however, that it should be left to allow the ''conference
effect'' to sink in.

If Mr Lang approves the hospital plan he risks highlighting the trust
controversy again, and pointing up the opposition of Marcus Humphrey, the Tory
candidate, and the Conservative group on Aberdeen council.

The crisis comes amid continued Government complaints about BBC coverage -
particularly that of the Nine o'clock News on Health Secretary William
Waldegrave's speech on Wednesday, and a ''package'' featuring a British Medical
Association attack on the speech. Cabinet Ministers complained to BBC executives
at Blackpool. The Tory party has yet to make an official complaint though Judith
Chaplin, the Prime Minister's political secretary is said to have telephoned the
BBC to convey Mr Major's anger.

Meanwhile, determined to dispute the Prime Minister's pledge to stand by the
NHS, Labour's health spokesman, Robin Cook, yesterday released details of three
cases where NHS patients complained of being charged for fertility treatment and
incontinence aids. He said Mr Major ''does not appear to know what is actually
happening in the NHS, for even as he speaks patients across the country are
being charged for a range of services''.

Labour will put the health service centre stage when Neil Kinnock launches an
autumn campaign in Birmingham today. Tomorrow, they will release a pamphlet on
the Tory record on health and the economy.

Michael Heseltine, Secretary of State for the Environment, is likely to play a
prominent role in the run-up to the election after his triumphant reception last
Thursday. The warm applause is seen by party managers as removing any obstacle
to using his formidable campaigning skills.

It is also clear the Tories plan to continue to attack Labour's union links.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                              308 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

Unions pull out of battle for services

BYLINE:  dave blackhurst

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 510 words


Unions representing thousands of staff at the University Hospital of North
Staffordshire, have pulled out of a community campaign to fight NHS cuts.

They have quit the Save Our Services (SOS) movement, after accusing it of
"putting out misinformation" which is undermining their own attempts to save
under-threat jobs at the Hartshill complex.

And another pressure group, North Staffordshire Healthwatch, has also quit the
alliance, after claiming it has become a vehicle for the Socialist Party.
despite being set up as a non-political organisation.

SOS was formed to fight the hospital's programme of cutting 1,000 jobs and
closing hundreds of beds, to claw back debts of £15 million.

Its high spot was organising a protest march and rally in the summer, which saw
5,000 demonstrators take to the streets.

But following regular talks between senior management and unions, the hospital
has reduced the level of compulsory redundancies from initial estimates of 700
to just 122 registered so far, although officials cannot rule out further forced
departures.

Pat Powell, the  Unison union branch secretary at the hospital, said: "While
resisting the cuts, we are pleased with progress which is coming from these
talks. SOS has been picking up on gossip being told them by people attending
their meetings, and then putting it out as fact on flyers.

"This goes for the number of staff who are going and the identity of wards which
are closing. We cannot afford our members' campaign to be based on inaccuracies
which undermine what we are trying to achieve," added Mrs Powell, who is also
secretary of the hospital staff side representing all the unions.

Healthwatch is now to form a North Staffordshire branch of the national movement
called Keep Our NHS Public, instead of working with SOS.

Co-ordinator Ian Syme said: "We were instrumental in setting up SOS, but it has
been taken over by sectarian political forces, and it is based on making
personal attacks on people like Antony Sumara before he left as chief executive
last month.

"There are some very good people in the Socialist party, but SOS was supposed to
be non-political."

SOS secretary Andy Bentley said: "We are disappointed the unions at the trust no
longer participate in the wider campaign. But we are pleased to see patients and
hospital staff are still with us.

"We have members of other political parties with us, including Labour and the
Greens."

He added that some of the information put out was based on what is already in
the public domain.

In its latest newsletter, advertising a meeting in the Coachmakers Arms, Hanley,
on Monday, at 7.30pm, SOS says: "Antony Sumara is now taking his bloated salary
and running.

"He is to be rewarded for his hatchet job with a lucrative 'top post in London'.
Sumara is many things but not a fool. He has realised that the hatchet job he
took on at our hospital will ultimately fail, so he is getting out while he can.

"This is a victory for NHS staff and patient campaigners, and the message will
go out loud and clear to whoever is appointed as the next hatchet man."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            October 18, 2016 Tuesday

PM extends all help, politicians reach out

BYLINE: Subrat Das

LENGTH: 516  words


Bhubaneswar, Oct. 18: Politicians made a beeline at various hospitals to see the
victims of Sum hospital fire mishap, who were rushed to various other locations
for emergency treatment. Those who were not in the city, tweeted to express
their condolences for the victims and wished a speedy recovery for those
undergoing treatment.

Chief minister Naveen Patnaik visited the Capital Hospital where patients from
the tragedy-struck Sum hospital were rushed last night. Accompanied by health
minister Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak, he met the patients and asked officials to
provide free treatment expeditiously. He followed it up by visiting AIIMS and
AMRI Hospital today, where more than 60 victims are undergoing treatment.

By the time the chief minister visited the hospital last night, Prime Minister
Narendra Modi spoke to him over the phone and assured all possible support. Modi
asked the Union health minister J.P. Nadda to make necessary arrangements for
the treatment of critical patients at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, and visit the state
capital to supervise the arrangements.

The PM said: "Deeply anguished by the loss of lives in the hospital fire in
Odisha. The tragedy is mind-numbing. My thoughts are with bereaved families," on
Twitter.

Modi's tweets followed those of senior BJP leaders, including party president
Amit Shah, Union ministers J.P. Nadda, Jual Oram, Dharmendra Pradhan and senior
state party leaders. Nadda is also scheduled to visit Bhubaneswar tomorrow
morning to oversee the arrangements at AIIMS here.

At the Capital Hospital, leaders and supporters of the ruling BJD and other
political parties vied for reaching out to the patients and their family
members. Even supporters of chief minister and cadres of other political parties
were seen raising slogans and counter slogans.

"This is a time when you can win the hearts of the people by expressing
sympathy," said a senior BJD leader.

All the three city MLAs, city mayor and other ruling parties were seen at the
Capital Hospital, while a ruling BJD MLA Prasant Jagdev got busy in a heated
argument with senior police officials in an attempt to get the body of a mishap
victim released.

Leaders of BJP and Congress also did not lag behind in registering their
presence at the hospital. While a BJP delegation led by party's legislature
party leader K.V. Singh Deo visited the hospital, the Congress legislators, who
had gone to New Delhi, were scheduled to visit the Capital Hospital and other
hospitals on their return today evening. PCC president Prasad Harichandan was
one of the first Congress leader to visit the various hospitals. CPI general
secretary D. Raja, who was also in the city, also visited the victims.

Activists of CPI(M) staged a demonstration in front of the health minister's
official residence, demanding his resignation for the utter failure of the
health department in handling the situation. Former Pradesh Congress Committee
president Niranjan Patnaik sought a judicial probe into the tragedy.

Congress MLAs led by leader of Opposition, Narasingha Mishra, visited the
patients at various hospital today evening.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                         November 10, 1985, Sunday, SUN

First Liver transplant performed at Toronto General

BYLINE: By Laurie Monsebraaten Toronto Star

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. F6

LENGTH: 718 words


   Metro physicians broke new medical ground last week by performing the area's
first liver transplant operation.

The 48-year-old recipient is listed in serious but stable condition at Toronto
General Hospital where a transplant team spent 14 hours giving the man a new
liver.

The organ was donated by a 38-year-old Toronto man who died Oct.  31.

The transplant was performed even though the hospital had not received requested
approval and funding from Ontario's health ministry to set up Toronto's first
liver transplant program.

The Metro Toronto District Health Council - a committee set up to advise the
minister of health on matters including the establishment of new programs - has
requested that three Toronto hospitals begin liver transplant programs with the
University of Toronto's faculty of medicine.

Hospitals recommended for the program are Toronto General, Mount Sinai and
Hospital for Sick Children.

University Hopsital in London has been the only Ontario hospital now performing
liver transplants. Since 1977, 40 liver transplants have been carried out there.

Counting promises

The gloves came off last week during the final countdown to municipal election
day as Toronto mayoralty candidate Anne Johnston launched her fiercest attack
yet on Mayor Art Eggleton.

"He's a do-nothing mayor. I'm sorry to be so negative all the time, but that's
the record," Johnston said after releasing a paper that lists almost every major
promise Eggleton has made during his five years as mayor.

She accused him of making 27 election promises during his 1980 election campaign
"that either disappeared or were abandoned after a half-hearted effort."

Eggleton refuted Johnston's claim, saying that he had made 82 promises during
the 1980 campaign and, by 1982, 82 per cent had been largely fulfilled.

Meanwhile, in the City of York, where the New Democratic Party is battling to
re-elect party faithful to the school boards and city hall, Liberal MP John
Nunziata came under fire for giving a little help to his political friends in
the municipal area.

The former York alderman has endorsed seven municipal election candidates in an
attempt to help federal Liberal leader John Turner rebuild the party from the
grassroots.

"If we can get Liberal-minded people elected to local councils, it's a
tremendous step in the right direction," said the rookie MP, one of only 40
Liberals who survived the Tory sweep across Canada last September.

But York mayoral candidate Guy D'Onofrio - who isn't getting Nunziata's support
- said there is no room for party politics at the municipal level.

D'Onofrio's campaign headquarters is staffed by people from all three political
parties, he said.

Architects angry

There was yet more dome dealing last week after the price tag of Metro's domed
stadium shot from $150 to $225 million.

The Ontario Dome Group, one of four bidders for the contract, came up with some
major monetary persuasion - an extra $20 million to the $40 million of private
investment.

The announcement has left rival bidders scurrying to find the extra money and
has angered architects.

They say the winner should be decided on the merits of the designs, not on who
finds new investors.

Mayor Art Eggleton said more private money is needed and, while merit should
decide who wins, some consideration will have to be given to the financial side.

Concert loss feared

The threat of losing last summer's lucrative Bruce Springsteen concerts moved
Exhibition Place staff to overlook safety regulations and overcrowd the stadium,
The Star learned last week.

Under fire and building department regulations, total capacity for the stadium -
including fixed seating and the playing field - is 54,331 people. The concerts
were packed with nearly 70,000 fans.

No charges have been laid as a result of the apparent infraction and no reasons
have been given.

But an official told The Star last week that Springsteen organizers wanted a
substantial percentage of the "possible" gate, and a crowd of 54,331 didn't
interest them.

"Somebody had to make a call," the official said. "Springsteen already had two
dates set up in Buffalo. They had a bigger stadi um. They were ready to go.
There was really no time."

- Laurie Monsebraaten

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1985 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              311 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 24, 2004

'Keep hospital moving'

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 388 words


A Bristol MP has issued a warning to the city's hung council not to allow their
political differences to get in the way of building a new hospital in south
Bristol.  Dawn Primarolo, Labour MP for Bristol South, was speaking after the
announcement of the Bristol South and West Primary care Trust's decision to
press ahead with a planning application on the Hengrove Park site.

Labour and Tory councillors have been keen to give the green light to the plans,
but Liberal Democrat members have had reservations about how much information
they have about the future facility.

Last year, a masterplan for Hengrove Park was agreed by the council, which
included a 50-metre swimming pool and other leisure services, but originally the
hospital was not part of it.

But the Liberal Democrat party voted against it while the other two parties
recommended it.

Since the hospital has been involved with the plan they have been even more
concerned about the overall scheme.

Ms Primarolo said: "After all the years of waiting, the people of South Bristol
want to see this important new facility delivered.

"Now is not the time for political games and wrecking tactics. I will continue
to do all I can to support and guide the PCT and City Council through the next
stages of this project and I hope that locally elected representatives - of all
parties - will be doing the same." She also welcomed the move taken by the PCT.
She said: "The PCT has conducted a thorough consultation with residents, which
has enabled them to make some important decisions on the hospital plans." Ms
Primarolo said she would be looking very carefully at the way the council
conducts itself over the coming months.

Councillor Mary Sykes (Lib Dem Hengrove) stressed her party wants to see the
right hospital in the right place.

She said: "We want to make sure that we are doing the right thing in the right
location.

"There is no political agenda apart from to try and ensure that all parts of the
hospital and the masterplan work in the best way possible.

"It's not correct that Labour and the Tories do not take these points
seriously." Tory councillor Richard Eddy, a member of the Hengrove Park
Sponsors, said: "It is now time that the Lib Dems put these political tactics
aside and concentrated on the job ahead."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004 2404BRISEP191Tkeep

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press


                              312 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              July 2, 1996 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Why health planning is a political hazard

BYLINE: James Gillespie James Gillespie teaches Politics at Macquarie University
and is author of The Price of Health: Australian Governments and Medical
Politics, Cambridge University Press 1991.

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 949 words


Attempts to redistribute health services have been made before ... it looks like
they'll be made again.

THE Minister for Health, Dr Andrew Refshauge, has just had a savage lesson in
the political barriers to rational planning of health services. The intervention
of the Premier, Mr Carr, to cancel the plans to amalgamate St Vincent's and St
George public hospitals has ended a messy and embarrassing policy disaster.

The move was the first large step to fulfil the Government's promise to achieve
a fundamental reallocation of resources to areas of greatest population growth.
It was soon clouded, however, with secondary issues which took command of the
political debate.

While the mobilisation of affected interest groups - ranging from visiting
medical officers, nursing staff and local community groups - was predictable, if
ill-planned for, there were additional complications stemming from the religious
affiliations of St Vincent's.

The arguments for the move on pure lines of health policy were impeccable. For
some years, the management of St Vincent's has publicly acknowledged the
problems of distance from the regions with population increases and growing
demands for health services. Similarly, the needs of the St George region for
upgraded medical services had been recognised when its hospital recently became
a teaching hospital.

These problems have been with us for a long time and the political obstacles to
achieving a more equitable distribution of resources have been equally
persistent. The first coherent attempts to replan the location of health
services to serve growing populations date from the 1940s.

The Federal and State Labor governments of the 1940s abandoned the attempt in
the face of opposition from the medical profession, the large teaching hospitals
and the Catholic church. Half-hearted attempts by subsequent Coalition
governments achieved little. It was only the financial largesse of the Whitlam
Government that led to the first major breakthrough, including the construction
of Westmead.

But since the mid-1970s, health politics has operated within a harsher financial
climate: where the gain of one sector must be balanced - or more than balanced -
by the losses of other sectors.

The greatest breakthrough came with the tactics which made Laurie Brereton's
reputation as a political bulldozer by successfully implementing the Wran
Government's "Beds for the West" campaign in 1983. He defeated a formidable
alliance of inner-city trade union and ALP branches and the medical staffs of
hospitals facing closure.

The Greiner and Fahey Coalition Governments continued this redistributive
approach: with the smooth move of the Children's Hospital from Camperdown to
Westmead and the rather messier, and politically damaging, reorganisation of the
hospital services of the inner west.

The Carr Government promised from the start to carry these policies to a higher
stage. Last October, Dr Refshauge signalled the distinctive features of the
Labor Government's policy approach to the finance and administration of NSW
health services in the economic statement "Caring for Health: Equity, Efficiency
and Quality".

The main element in the policy was to improve equity between the State's
regions. On the assumption of no major increases in government spending, the
only way to achieve redistribution is by taking away from the wealthier areas -
the great teaching hospitals of inner and eastern Sydney.

This aroused some media attention at the time - with warnings that the minister
would require "nerves of iron" to implement the program of resource
reallocation. But most interested groups waited to see where the cuts would hit.

St Vincent's, established in Darlinghurst since 1870, was a logical place to
start. In many ways it provided a condensed version of the wider problems of the
system.

Its administrators have recognised the problems posed by a shrinking population
base for some years. In 1992 the Greiner Government sponsored a move to the
south west, with St Vincent's taking over Liverpool Hospital.

This met with vociferous opposition, from Liverpool Hospital, medical academics
and the Labor Party. The themes were familiar: the fate of reproductive
services, family planning and terminations in a Catholic hospital, and the
spectre of privatisation of a publicly managed hospital.

The move was compounded by the anomalous position of St Vincent's. As a Schedule
3 hospital under the Public Hospitals Act it is funded as part of the public
system, but managed privately. The issue became complicated with opposition to
other attempts at privatising the health system, and St Vincent's withdrew.

The Carr Government's attempt to relocate St Vincent's followed remarkably
similar lines.

The array of forces that swiftly mobilised were predictable. Even if the
assurances of the State Government that there would be no involuntary
redundancies are accepted, there would have been job losses, as well as the
problems of relocating to Kogarah.

Existing power hierarchies would have been threatened and the uncertainty of
change posed more intangible threats, such as relationships to the wider
community. On top of this was the question of Catholic medico-ethical concerns
entering a secular institution.

The settlement of this dispute appears to leave St Vincent's in a relatively
secure financial position - although with its long-term future still uncertain.
The promise of additional funding for the health system, so that the next stage
of reallocations will not be muddied with budget cuts, may make the next stage
easier.

But it is unclear how this can be achieved in the face of the Federal
Government's planned cuts to the health system in the August Budget.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1996 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Scared of Khan's bouncers...

BYLINE:  Urooj Samdhani

SECTION: Vol. XXV No. 313

LENGTH: 712  words


The country's political scenario is heating up, particularly in the province of
Punjab, where the recent surge in the popularity of Imran Khan's party, Pakistan
Tehrik-i-Insaf (PTI), has definitely put some major political parties under
tremendous pressure. Judging by their moves, it now appears as if some of them
are scared of his bouncers that seem not to have lost any of their bite, to
which the great Indian batsman, Mohinder Amarnath, can testify when he was
knocked down by a 'lethal Khan' bouncer back in the early eighties during an
India-Pakistan test series. That was about 30 years ago.

Recently, the PML-N MNA, Hanif Abbasi, revived those memories of Imran running
from a long run-up and putting terror in the hearts and minds of the opposing
batsmen. Likewise, Abbasi may have felt the pressure of the bouncer standing on
the non-strikers end, and seeing his more senior batsmen cringe under them, when
he stated in a talk show that members of Imran's family were appointed as
Shaukat Khanum Memorial Trust Board of Governors and paid Rs2 lakhs per month.
Perhaps, this statement was the result of a barrage of fast, lethal and
well-directed bouncers by Khan at his political opponents. However, Imran has
clarified it by claiming on television that no one on the Board, including
himself, has ever taken any money from the hospital since its inception in 1994.

Apparently, what this seems to have done is put Imran into a more aggressive
mood by going all out with a deadly combination of bouncers and yorkers to
further pressurise the opposing team (in this case, a certain political party).
And with an ever-improving team, surely, the task is not beyond the most
dedicated and single-minded captain. It was this trait that made Pakistan the
world champion in the 1992 Cricket World Cup in Australia. Shaukat Khanum
Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre (SKMCH & RC) is another example.

The question, however, is: Why don't our politicians focus more on these lines,
rather than just criticise or target one of the few clean and controversy-free
institutions working for the welfare of the people in Pakistan? Although it may
damage this national asset, yet we must not be surprised, since we (read
political parties and successive government) have a rich history of doing so!
Just look at PIA, Pakistan Railways, Pakistan Steel Mills, to name a few.

So, let's look at how the hospital was built and what is its importance for the
people of Pakistan.

To build the hospital, initially Imran Khan donated most of what he had earned
from cricket, including the two plots that he received from the government for
winning the 1992 World Cup, besides receiving local and foreign donations.

Next, every year, thousands of new patients are registered in SKMCH from across
the country, due to which the construction of two more hospitals are in the
pipeline: One is in Karachi and the other in Peshawar. The hospital to be
established in Karachi was delayed because of the unrest in the city, but now
things are moving fast and in the right direction. The land has already been
acquired for it, while a Diagnostic Centre is already functioning. In Khyber
Pakhtumkhwa, too, land has been acquired for this purpose with the boundary wall
constructed in the area of Hayatabad. There is a Diagnostic Centre in University
Town and a number of collection centres are spread throughout the province.

Anyway, most of the patients in SKMCH are treated free of cost, despite the fact
that cancer is the most expensive disease to treat. With it being the only
hospital of its kind in the country, it could have made a fortune if the Board
of Governors or, to put it more bluntly, Imran wanted to. But that was never the
thought behind it. That is why the people have put their trust in it and help it
through their enormous donations every year.

Imran Khan had a dream to build the hospital for the people of Pakistan, which
is exactly what SKMCH has been doing since 1994. Also, it is our moral duty to
help him in his endeavour. We can criticise him for his political outlook, but
please keep a good cause, like the hospital, out of it and learn to face the
bouncers with courage standing up as they will never stop coming. Remember that
this is the stuff Khan is made up of!

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2011 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Caboolture Shire Herald (Australia)

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday
                                  1 - Edition

Hospital at `crisis point'

BYLINE: GLENN ROBERTS<br/>robertsg@qst.newsltd.com.au

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 292  words


BOTH the state's top doctors organisation and state's major political parties
say the Caboolture Hospital needs fixing, but there's no agreement on how.

AMAQ president Dr Richard Kidd said the hospital had been at crisis point for
much of last year, running at ``over 100 per cent occupancy for a lot of the
time''.

``This is putting the hospital under really great stress and unfortunately we
know from international studies as well as our own experience that when any
hospitals are running at more than 85 per cent bed occupancy systems break down
and there's more likely to be bad outcomes and harm done to patients,'' Dr Kidd
said.

He said the shortage of beds was the fundamental cause of emergency departments
getting blocked.

Labor's Pumicestone candidate Carryn Sullivan said Caboolture was the ``next
priority'' for a major expansion, but Premier Anna Bligh had made no
announcement.

Mrs Sullivan defended the government's record, pointing out the $5.2 million
emergency department expansion and its $9.5 million spending on training centres
for doctors and nurses at Caboolture.

Also, plans for a maternity section expansion were ``ready to go''.

But, she said, getting enough doctors was a problem, citing the inability to
attract a haematologist despite $1.2 million in funding.

Katter's Australian Party candidate Brandt King said his party wanted local
boards that could be more responsive to local needs and more accountable.

LNP candidate Lisa France said they had a ``whole-of-hospital approach'' but
would not outline her strategy for Caboolture Hospital.

Dr Kidd said there might be a need for a new hospital, but the current hospital
needed to be more efficient, such as getting patients out of hospital sooner and
reducing unnecessary admissions.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: CSH


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                   Hunts Post

                             May 4, 2016 Wednesday

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 645 words


Organisers say hundreds of people attended a protest march calling for plans to
force Hinchingbrooke Hospital into a merger with Peterborough Hospital to be
scrapped.

Jointly organised by Huntingdon MP Jonathan Djanogly and the Hands off
Hinchingbrooke group, the march, held on Saturday, saw protestors march from
Riverside Park up to the hospital itself.



Mr Djanogly said he was "delighted" with the turnout and show of support for the
hospital.

He told The Hunts Post: "Present were representatives of all political parties,
unions, friendship groups and non-connected local people, all of whom view
Hinchingbrooke as a vital part of our local community.

"The marchers had three agreed requests; there should be no merger between
Hinchingbrooke and Peterborough hospitals, Hinchingbrooke should retain its
services, and the proposals to be announced by the respective trusts later this
month should be subject to full local consultation.

"We continue to collect signatures for our petition against merger and I shall,
if necessary, pursue our campaign at the highest levels in Westminster. But
let's hope that the hospital boards and the regional NHS listen to what local
residents and their patients so clearly wish to see."

It was announced in January that Hinchingbrooke Hospital could lose some of the
main functions of its accident and emergency department, and some key services
could be moved to other hospitals as part of a proposed merger with Peterborough
and Stamford Hospitals NHS Trusts.

According to Mr Djanogly, Hinchingbrooke's A & E, obstetrics, and maternity
departments were being considered as part of a review that could lead to a
merger.

The Hinchingbrooke and Peterborough NHS Trust boards signed a memorandum of
understanding in December and agreed to look at the business case for merging
the hospitals.

The Hinchingbrooke Health Care Trust's board is holding a public meeting to
discuss possible collaboration with Peterborough on Monday, May 23, at 11am in
the partnership suite at the hospital.

Jointly organised by Huntingdon MP Jonathan Djanogly and the Hands off
Hinchingbrooke group, the march, held on Saturday, saw protestors march from
Riverside Park up to the hospital itself.

Mr Djanogly said he was "delighted" with the turnout and show of support for the
hospital.

He told The Hunts Post: "Present were representatives of all political parties,
unions, friendship groups and non-connected local people, all of whom view
Hinchingbrooke as a vital part of our local community.

"The marchers had three agreed requests; there should be no merger between
Hinchingbrooke and Peterborough hospitals, Hinchingbrooke should retain its
services, and the proposals to be announced by the respective trusts later this
month should be subject to full local consultation.

"We continue to collect signatures for our petition against merger and I shall,
if necessary, pursue our campaign at the highest levels in Westminster. But
let's hope that the hospital boards and the regional NHS listen to what local
residents and their patients so clearly wish to see."

It was announced in January that Hinchingbrooke Hospital could lose some of the
main functions of its accident and emergency department, and other key services
could be moved to other hospitals as part of a proposed merger with Peterborough
and Stamford Hospitals NHS trusts.

According to Mr Djanogly, Hinchingbrooke's A & E, obstetrics, and maternity
departments were being considered as part of a review that could lead to a
merger.

The Hinchingbrooke and Peterborough NHS Trust boards signed a memorandum of
understanding in December and agreed to look at the business case for merging
the hospitals.

The Hinchingbrooke Health Care Trust's board is holding a public meeting to
discuss possible collaboration with Peterborough on Monday, May 23, at 11am in
the partnership suite at the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HPT


                    Copyright 2016 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Minister orders removal of banners of political parties from hospitals

LENGTH: 384  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Sindh Minister for Health, Jam Mehtab Hussain
Dahar on Thursday sought immediate removal of banners and posters of different
political parties and groups from all government hospitals in the province.


     Chairing a departmental meeting in his office, he directed the medical
superintendents and administrators of public sector health facilities in the
province to also ensure immediate wiping away of graffiti by activists in
support of their respective political affiliations.
     "This is high time to ensure that hospitals and healthcare facilities are
meant for public service and are not used as political battle fields," said Jam
Mehtab Hussain.
      He reiterated that a healthy and apolitical environment must be urgently
created in healthcare centres so as to facilitate patients in
seeking uninterrupted assistance, otherwise noticed to be hindered under pretext
of protest by elements claiming to have their varied political affiliations.
     "This is not acceptable and would not be tolerated," said the provincial
minister for health.
     During the meeting the Minister Jam Mehtab also took exception to
vacant post of gynecologist at Civil Hosptal, Umerkot.
     He directed the Special Secretary for Health, Dr. Khalid Shaikh to ensure
immediate appointment of a qualified gynecologist at the hospital, with due
consideration towards her necessary presence and
timely deliverance of service to the women belonging to the remote area.
     "These women must not suffer due to absence of gynecologists and other
relevant professionals assigned responsibilities, against salaries and perks,"
said Jab Mehtab Hussain Dahar.
     He also urged the concerned authorities to ensure that all public
sector hospitals, including those functional in less developed areas, remain
well equipped, with ready availability of all relevant medicines, drugs and
disposable and also manned by qualified and trained personnel.
     During the meeting the provincial health minister also took stock
of reported mishandling of polio workers during the recently concluded
special polio immunization campaign in 11 high risk districts.
     Instances of vaccine dropping and reported carelessness of these
workers can not be tolerated and the matter would be duly investigated
so as to bring to task the miscreants, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      May 21, 1998, Thursday, ALL EDITIONS

ON WASHINGTON;
Medicare enforcers criticized

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 749 words


IRS bashing seems to have worked on the tax guys, so why not try the same
technique on Medicare overseers?

U.S. hospitals have turned to Congress in an effort to curb Medicare fraud
prosecutions, using the same pitch crafted to capitalize on the furor over
abusive government investigators. Their message is similar to the one heard
repeatedly by witnesses testifying before Congress about alleged abuses and
strong-arm tactics by Internal Revenue Service investigators.

In trying to roll back a two-year crackdown on Medicare fraud, health care
industry execs argue that the crackdown has had the effect of criminalizing
simple billing mistakes. They also have hired a top prosecutor, former U.S.
Attorney Joseph diGenova, to lobby. Their message, delivered by hospital
executives calling and visiting the Capitol, is that prosecutors are abusing the
False Claims Act to coerce hospitals to pay fines and escape the threat of
criminal prosecutions. ''You shouldn't be using capital punishment for
jaywalking,'' said Richard Pollock, executive vice president of the American
Hospital Association, sounding the rallying cry.

Congress appears to be listening, because the hospital-backed bill has been
introduced in both chambers of Congress.

The False Claims Act provides for triple damages and fines of up to $ 10,000.
Medicare lost $ 20 billion to fraud, waste and simple error last year, according
to the Department of Health and Human Services. Budget knife wielded Majority
Republicans brushed off Democratic catcalls Wednesday and muscled a $ 1.72
trillion 1999 spending plan through the House Budget Committee, chaired by Rep.
John Kasich (R-Ohio). The measure calls for cutting spending by $ 101 billion
over the next five years and reducing taxes by the same amount. The package,
approved on a party-line 22-16 vote, moderates any pain its spending reductions
might cause by delaying most of them until after the next presidential election
and by not indicating the programs to be trimmed. It also doesn't reflect
potential effects of the two biggest bills Congress is now considering: tobacco
and highways. Even so, the election-year blueprint is aimed at letting
Republicans argue that they would go beyond last year's budget-balancing deal
with further belt-tightening and more generous tax cuts. Women in command It was
only four years ago that laws were changed to permit women to serve aboard U.S.
combat vessels. Now, the Navy has come up with another first: This year, five
women will take command of warships, the first time that female officers will
skipper men o'war. Between June and January, the female officers will take the
helm of a guided-missile frigate and four amphibious ships. Degrees of
separation College isn't for everyone, of course. And quite a few people without
college degrees have done pretty well for themselves by running for Congress,
where they earn $ 136,700 a year and all the rubber chicken they can eat. Here
are the elected ungrads, as listed by George magazine and The Washington Post:
Sens. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), Lauch Faircloth (R-N.C.) and Rod Grams (R-Minn.);
and Reps. Brian Bilbray (R-Calif.), Dan Burton (R-Ind.), Sonny Callahan
(R-Ala.), Mac Collins (R-Ga.), Terry Everett (R-Ala.), Mark Foley (R-Fla.),
Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), William Hefner (D-N.C.), William Lipinski (D-Ill.),
Matthew Martinez (D-Calif.), Solomon Ortiz (D-Texas), Silvestre Reyes (D-Texas),
Esteban Torres (D-Calif.), Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.) and C.W. "Bill" Young (R-Fla.).
ELSEWHERE

A sudden case of Powerball fever before Wednesday night's estimated $ 175
million drawing, and a long line at the local 7-Eleven, made White House press
secretary Mike McCurry 24 minutes late in starting his daily briefing.

Former Sen. Bob Packwood (R-Ore.), now a Washington lobbyist, has signed on to
help Marriott International Inc. rewrite a law that gives a tax break to five
''paired-share'' real estate investment trusts, hotel industry competitors of
Marriott.

Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), who led the congressional drive to ban
anti-personnel land mines weapons worldwide and create a war victims fund, has
received the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation's first humanitarian award.
DULY NOTED "Even though she's a Republican, I really like her." --- Cher,
talking about Rep. Mary Bono (R-Calif.), her late ex-husband Sonny Bono's widow,
on Jay Leno's TV show Tuesday night. Compiled by Ernie Freda from staff, news
services and published reports

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Final Today's News

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution


                              318 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                             July 2, 2016 Saturday

Messy affairs of Vehari DHQ Hospital

BYLINE: Mian Inamul Haq

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 121

LENGTH: 564  words


People have demanded Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif make a surprise visit to the
District Headquarters Hospital whose messy affairs have made the life of
patients miserable.

The hospital is the only health facility in the area but it has reportedly
become a 'slaughterhouse' for the patients as a number of them has lost their
lives in the last few days either due to the alleged negligence or
unavailability of doctors. The main reason behind increase in deaths in
emergency ward was reported that the specialist doctors have forbidden the
emergency doctors not to make them any call after 2pm. If a patient is brought
to the DHQ Hospital after 2pm, he is referred to the Nishtar Hospital in Multan
and if the patient has no resources to go Multan, the emergency doctors start
ignoring him and consequently he dies.

Another major problem for the patients is non-functional air conditioners in the
hospital. It is reported that the air conditioners are repaired every year but
the result is zero. The other problem of the hospital is poor sanitary
conditions as some sweepers were Muslims and they have refused to work soon
after their appointment. They have been appointed on political grounds. The
shortage of staff is yet another problem being faced by the patients and their
attendants at the hospital. The hospital has been upgraded to 300 beds but the
staff has not been provided.

When contacted, DHQ Hospital Medical Superintendent Ghazanfar Abbas Dharalla
said that he was posted here about 45 days ago. When he took the charge, all the
generators were out-of-order, he said, adding that now three generators were
functional due to his efforts. He said that repair of air conditioners was under
way. He, however, said that 50 per cent air conditioners could not be repaired
and he had sent its report to the district administration. About poor
sanitation, the MS said that there were 38 sanctioned posts of sanitary workers.
Of them, eight were ill while six others were Muslims and 12 seats were lying
vacant. He said that the Muslim sweepers had been appointed on political grounds
and he was helpless to take action against them.

Ghazanfar said that there were 36 sanctioned posts of doctors and of them 15
were lying vacant. He said that if he tried to take action against any doctor
for any negligence, he either came under political pressure or threatened to
resign.

To a question regarding specialist doctors, who did not admit patients after
2pm, the MS said that he had repeatedly asked the doctors in this regard, but to
no avail. He suggested that the Punjab Health secretary should issue a letter to
all specialist doctors, directing them to visit the emergency ward in the
evening. The MS admitted that the paramedics were posted on political grounds
and he had started rotating them but the speed was slow due to political
involvement.

DCO Akbar Ali Bhatti said that he was making surprise visits to the hospital and
he had succeeded in improving the emergency ward. He added that air conditioners
of one room of emergency ward were working and free medicines were being
provided to the patients. He admitted that the paramedics had been working on
the same post for the last many years and no one could change them. The DCO said
that he had sent a report to the health secretary about working of specialist
doctors and now it was his duty to take action against them.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Era (Windhoek)

                                October 22, 2014

Health Manifestos At a Glance

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: Windhoek


Most political parties contesting the November presidential and National
Assembly elections agree health facilities at state hospitals are inadequate,
dilapidated, under-equipped and need a facelift.

In the same breath, the political parties also call for affordable or free
health care for the needy and want to see a future government rolling out a
vigorous training programme for medical staff such as nurses and doctors.

Furthermore, the parties also share similar sentiments on the social welfare
system in their manifestos - that social welfare is inadequate.

The National Democratic Party (NDP) says that if elected to power, it would open
more clinics, health centres and hospitals in all regions and set up mobile
clinics and send citizens for training for ten years.

NDP promises that senior citizens would not need to pay for medicine and no
patient would be turned away because they do not have money, adding that the NDP
would promote free health.

The Congress of Democrats (CoD) says it would use a radical approach to
transform the current health and welfare system with comprehensive medical aid,
medical insurance and a pension system to include public and private sector
employees.

It says social workers, church functionaries, bishops, pastors, religious sector
employees, employees in the farming sector, domestics, war veterans and children
of war veterans would be included in such a scheme.

"All former exiles shall be given the opportunity for permanent rehabilitation,
restitution and resettlement by state," reads the manifesto, adding that war
veterans need to heal the wounds of the past and damage caused by the history of
genocide, dehumanization, expropriation of property, poverty, political
oppression and economic exploitation.

CoD promises to provide medical insurance to unemployed youth, students as well
as pensioners to allow access to health facilities.

The DTA of Namibia says Namibia needs a holistic care system that is universally
accessible and affordable.

"The last health care policy dates back to 2010 and Namibia now needs a
comprehensive health care policy to address complex health care challenges,"
says the DTA.

The DTA says it would address a shortage of health care professionals, modernise
all government hospitals and infrastructure, increase the number of paramedical
and medical colleges, focus on rural health care delivery, give high priority to
chronic diseases and invest in research and development.

The Swapo Party promises to upgrade existing infrastructure and develop new
health facilities, undertake research and training to achieve national public
health objectives, introduce health care packages and specialised services at
district and regional hospitals.

Swapo says it will enact the public health bill, environmental health bill and
food safety bill, traditional medicine and introduce high specialized services
such as orthopedic and spinal surgery, hip and knee replacement, maxillo-facial
surgery, blindness prevention, nuclear medicine and cardiac surgery.

"Under strategic intervention and improved access to health facilities and
services, a number of infrastructure improvements were undertaken including the
construction and renovation of various clinics, health centres and hospitals,
renovation of maternity wards at Windhoek Central Hospital, Oshakati
Intermediate Hospital and Opuwo District Hospital, while mortality rates from
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria were drastically reduced," state Swapo.

Swanu of Namibia plans to improve public health care by investing heavily in
renovating the Katutura State Hospital and Central State Hospital, and
streamlining public hospitals so that operations are smoother and cycle times
for patients are significantly reduced. It also plans to phase in universal
medical aid for those who cannot afford conventional medical aid and build new
state hospitals to reduce pressure on current ones.

The Republican Party (RP) says it would ensure all state hospitals and clinics
are well maintained and properly equipped, that hospitals, clinics and
pharmacies are consistently equipped with the required medicine and priority is
given to nurses and sisters to be employed and trained to meet international
standards.

The RP says its government would subsidize those who cannot afford medical
services if voted into power.

The All People's Party (APP) says it would embark on mass training of nurses and
other medical practitioners if they win the elections and added that retired
professional nurses and doctors still fit to work would be called in to help out
at clinics.

APP promised to revamp and expand a decadent ambulance system and each health
district would have an ambulance, while all companies would be mandated to have
full health care coverage for workers.

The Rally for Democracy and Progress (RDP) says that health for all is a
priority and it would implement the Social Security Commission-backed up
national medical insurance.

Furthermore, the RDP wants to provide accessible health to rural communities and
give priority to primary health care.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Union Daily Times, S.C.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday

Hospital district moving forward with bankruptcy process

BYLINE: Charles Warner, The Union Daily Times, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1141 words


July 12--UNION -- The Union Hospital District is moving forward with a
bankruptcy process that could help it pay off its debts while continuing to
provide health care services to the people of Union County.

On June 6, the district filed a Chapter 9 bankruptcy petition in order to seek
an "adjustment" of the debts of the the district and its four service areas --
Wallace Thomson Hospital, Ellen Sager Nursing Homes, Carolinas Health
Associates, and Union County EMS -- under the supervision of the Bankruptcy
Court."

Most of the $18 million-$20 million in debt, which the district had accumulated
over the past five years, is owed to vendors, a number of whom the district no
longer does business with because it brought those services in-house in an
effort to reduce costs.

When the district filed the Chapter 9 bankruptcy petition, CEO Paul Newhouse
said the district hoped to settle those debts during the bankruptcy process
through a combination of negotiations and restructuring.

On Friday, Newhouse discussed the bankruptcy process and the circumstances that
lead to the district filing the Chapter 9 petition and how the process is
proceeding.

Newhouse began by pointing out that Chapter 9 bankruptcy is a lesser known form
of bankruptcy specifically designed for municipalities, a category that includes
not only cities and towns, but also counties, municipal utilities, and school
districts. He pointed out that the Bankruptcy Code defines a municipality as a "
political subdivision or public agency or instrumentality of a State."

"We are a political subdivision created by the state," Newhouse said. "That puts
us under the Chapter 9 umbrella."

Newhouse also pointed out that Chapter 9 enables political subdivisions such as
the hospital district to reorganize their debt by extending the time period
during which they have to be paid; refinancing the debt; or reducing the
principle or interest on those existing debts. The assets of a political
subdivision are not liquidated under Chapter 9.

Initially, Newhouse said the district was working to deal with its debt
situation through affiliation with another health care organization.

"We had for the past year been negotiating with the vendors," Newhouse said. "A
part of that discussion was that we were talking with other health care systems
about an affiliation. The hope was that those debts would be off if we
affiliated with someone."

Newhouse said the district had hoped to have an affiliation agreement in place
by the beginning of this year, but learned in May that the organizations they'd
been in communication with were not prepared to move forward with affiliation at
the present time.

After learning of this, Newhouse said the district contacted its major vendors
to inform them of the situation and the district's response to it. Newhouse said
this took the form of a conference call with the attorneys representing the
vendors. He said that during the call the attorneys were told of the district's
continuing efforts to develop a reorganization/restructuring plan that would
help deal with the debt. The attorneys responded that they could not commit to
that plan without first contacting their clients.

Newhouse said that shortly after this one of the vendors decided to go ahead and
file a judgment suit against the district.

It was at that point that the district's attorney advised the district to file
Chapter 9 in order to prevent that vendor's judgment suit and to prevent other
vendors from doing the same. Newhouse said the attorney said that in situations
like this when one creditor files a judgment suit, other creditors will then do
the same, creating a piling on effect that could prove extremely costly to the
object of that suit.

"It needed to be filed for protection from litigation by some of the creditors,"
Newhouse said. "It also give us extra time to work on the plan to adjust that
debt."

Newhouse said that under the rules governing Chapter 9, before they can file for
bankruptcy, the debtor is required to attempt to negotiate with its creditors.
He said the district had been negotiating with its creditors for the past
several years, a process that included making payments when possible as well as
attempting to restructure the debt. When, however, one of the vendors chose to
file a judgment suit, Newhouse said the district had no choice but file for
Chapter 9 bankruptcy.

With the filing of Chapter 9, Newhouse said all the debt the district owed as of
June 6 "is put on hold," while the district goes through the bankruptcy process.

The district, including Wallace Thomson, Ellen Sagar, EMS, and Carolinas Health
Associates has continued to operate since that time, including do business with
its vendors. Newhouse said while the debt the district had accumulated up until
June 6 is on hold, the costs it has incurred since then are being paid and the
vendors kept informed of the district's efforts to reorganize and restructure as
part of the bankruptcy process.

Even as it goes through bankruptcy proceedings, Newhouse said the district is
still delivering health care services to the community as it did before June 6.

"We have not reduced any staff involved in treating patients," Newhouse said.
"Any and all reductions in personnel have been made in administrative staff or
those not directly involved in patient care. Staffing is at the same level it
has been for the past 15 years. We still have the same nurse to patient ratio."

Newhouse said he expects the Chapter 9 process to take several months as the
district, working with its attorney, reviews and analyzes all contracts with its
vendors to determine what can be renegotiated as part of the development of a
reorganization/restructuring plan that can be presented to the court. He said
the district had its first meeting with the judge presiding over the case in
Spartanburg this past Wednesday during which he and other representatives of the
district explained its history over the past few years including changes in
health care and their impact on its finances.

The hearing went well according to Newhouse who said the judge stated that he
understood the importance of the district in providing health care to the
community and that he wanted to help them work through the
reorganization/restructuring process.

"It was a good start," Newhouse said.

Newhouse added that if successful, the reorganization/restructuring plan it is
developing will not only enable it to pay off its debts to the satisfaction of
its creditors, but make it a more efficient organization that will be more
attractive to other health care systems. This in turn would increase the
likelihood of the district affiliating with one of those systems in the future.

___ (c)2014 The Union Daily Times (Union, S.C.) Visit The Union Daily Times
(Union, S.C.) at uniondailytimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140712-UH-Hospital
-district-moving-forward-with-bankruptcy-process-0712-20140712

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UH


                                 Copyright 2014


                              321 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               February 25, 2005

MRSA a medical issue, not a political weapon

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 336 words


I would like to state my views as a nurse in reply to the prospective
parliamentary candidate for the UK Independence Party, Mr David Challice, in
Matron will cleanse our hospitals, Points of view, February 21.  Firstly, MRSA
is not a subject to be used by political parties to gain points. It is a problem
needing co-operation among all members of the health professions, including
infection control specialist nurses, microbiologists, housekeeping staff,
nurses, medical staff, patients and visitors.

I can reassure everyone this is happening at the Royal Devon & Exeter Hospital.
We already have matrons in each specialist area, and an excellent director of
nursing in control of the wards.

Agony aunt Claire Raynor, unfortunately, has lost sight of the current
environment of the ward. In her day, the wards were staffed by larger numbers of
nurses, students and orderlies. Nursing and housekeeping staff work just as hard
at keeping the ward clean now. We also wash our hands just as frequently, and
use disinfectant gels.

In her day, patients stayed in hospital much longer and there was plenty of time
to clean between with several beds left empty. Today, many patients stay in
hospital only for a day or two. Beds are not left empty, and often, patients are
waiting for a bed before the previous person has gone home.

If Mr Challice looked at the age range of nurses, he would find the majority are
not young giggly girls or boys, but mature adults approaching retirement.
Indeed, the majority of students entering nursing now are aged 25 years plus.

Today, visiting hours are generally open and numbers unrestricted, as in the
past. Some visitors, unfortunately, are not considerate when they visit in dirty
clothes and welly boots, and sit on the beds of their relatives and others.

I would like to invite Mr Challice to visit my ward, then he can see for himself
how clean wards are, and also the pressure under which we all work.

Charles Conibear Raglans Alphington, Exeter

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2005 Express & Echo (Exeter)


                              322 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Jam Mehtab orders removal of banners of political parties from hospitals

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 678

LENGTH: 377  words


Sindh Minister for Health, Jam Mehtab Hussain Dahar on Thursday sought immediate
removal of banners and posters of different political parties and groups from
all government hospitals in the province.

Chairing a departmental meeting in his office, he directed the medical
superintendents and administrators of public sector health facilities in the
province to also ensure immediate wiping away of graffiti by activists in
support of their respective political affiliations.

"This is high time to ensure that hospitals and healthcare facilities are meant
for public service and are not used as political battle fields," said Jam Mehtab
Hussain. He reiterated that a healthy and apolitical environment must be
urgently created in healthcare centres so as to facilitate patients in seeking
uninterrupted assistance, otherwise noticed to be hindered under pretext of
protest by elements claiming to have their varied political affiliations. "This
is not acceptable and would not be tolerated," said the provincial minister for
health.

During the meeting the Minister Jam Mehtab also took exception to vacant post of
gynecologist at Civil Hosptal, Umerkot. He directed the Special Secretary for
Health, Dr. Khalid Shaikh to ensure immediate appointment of a qualified
gynecologist at the hospital, with due consideration towards her necessary
presence and timely deliverance of service to the women belonging to the remote
area.

"These women must not suffer due to absence of gynecologists and other relevant
professionals assigned responsibilities, against salaries and perks," said Jab
Mehtab Hussain Dahar. He also urged the concerned authorities to ensure that all
public sector hospitals, including those functional in less developed areas,
remain well equipped, with ready availability of all relevant medicines, drugs
and disposable and also manned by qualified and trained personnel.

During the meeting the provincial health minister also took stock of reported
mishandling of polio workers during the recently concluded special polio
immunization campaign in 11 high risk districts. Instances of vaccine dropping
and reported carelessness of these workers can not be tolerated and the matter
would be duly investigated so as to bring to task the miscreants, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Pakistan: Minister orders removal of banners of political parties from hospitals

LENGTH: 412  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Nov. 21 -- Sindh Minister for Health, Jam Mehtab Hussain

Dahar on Thursday sought immediate removal of banners and posters of different
political parties and groups from all government hospitals in the province.

Chairing a departmental meeting in his office, he directed the medical
superintendents and administrators of public sector health facilities in the
province to also ensure immediate wiping away of graffiti by activists in
support of their respective political affiliations.

"This is high time to ensure that hospitals and healthcare facilities are meant
for public service and are not used as political battle fields," said Jam Mehtab
Hussain.

He reiterated that a healthy and apolitical environment must be urgently created
in healthcare centres so as to facilitate patients in

seeking uninterrupted assistance, otherwise noticed to be hindered under pretext
of protest by elements claiming to have their varied political affiliations.

"This is not acceptable and would not be tolerated," said the provincial
minister for health.

During the meeting the Minister Jam Mehtab also took exception to

vacant post of gynecologist at Civil Hosptal, Umerkot.

He directed the Special Secretary for Health, Dr. Khalid Shaikh to ensure
immediate appointment of a qualified gynecologist at the hospital, with due
consideration towards her necessary presence and

timely deliverance of service to the women belonging to the remote area.

"These women must not suffer due to absence of gynecologists and other relevant
professionals assigned responsibilities, against salaries and perks," said Jab
Mehtab Hussain Dahar.

He also urged the concerned authorities to ensure that all public

sector hospitals, including those functional in less developed areas, remain
well equipped, with ready availability of all relevant medicines, drugs and
disposable and also manned by qualified and trained personnel.

During the meeting the provincial health minister also took stock

of reported mishandling of polio workers during the recently concluded

special polio immunization campaign in 11 high risk districts.

Instances of vaccine dropping and reported carelessness of these

workers can not be tolerated and the matter would be duly investigated

so as to bring to task the miscreants, he said

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                             October 7, 2011 Friday

3 political activists among 6 killed in Karachi

LENGTH: 279  words


Around six persons including three workers of a political party fell prey to
target killing and firing incidents while ten others including a child received
bullet injuries from aerial firing in various areas of the city in separate
incidents on Thursday.

According to police, in PIB Colony unidentified armed miscreants opened
indiscriminate fire at a person identified as Kamran 35, killing him at the
spot. Police shifted the body to hospital for medico legal investigation.

Later on it was revealed that Kamran was worker of a political party.

In North Nazimabad, miscreants sprayed bullets at security guard Faiz Ahmad 50.
Locals shifted security guard to hospital who succumbed to injuries on the way
to hospital.

Another citizen, Syed Abbas came under the barrage of fire when he was on the
way to home along with his child in Federal B Area. Abbas met his fate at the
spot while his child sustained critical bullet injuries who was rushed to
hospital.

In Gulistan-e-Jauhar, workers of two political parties traded fire which
resulted in the killing of two political activists.

Both the deceased were identified as 25-years-old Azeem alias Asad and Ajmal 18.
Prior to the tragic incident of killing and firing, miscreants gunned down a
person whose identity was not yet ascertained in Old City area. The body was
shifted by police to hospital for autopsy.

At least six people sustained bullet injuries when two groups traded fire in
Machar Colony area. Exchange of fire between the two rival groups continued for
several hours which was pacified when police and Rangers personnel arrived in
the area and took control of the spot. However, no arrest was yet made in this
regard.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday

Official inspects hospital, college in Landikotal

LENGTH: 140  words

DATELINE: LANDIKOTAL


Following the public complaints, a senior official of the political
administration inspected the hospital and college in Landikotal subdivision of
Khyber Agency on Tuesday.



Political Agent Syed Shahab Ali Shah along with Assistant Political Agent (APA)
Muhammad Tayyab Abdullah paid surprise visits to the Agency Headquarters
Hospital and the Government Degree Collage in Landikotal and inspected various
sections.

He checked all the official record and directed the hospital administration to
ensure 100 percent attendance of all employees. He handed over keys of an
ambulance van to the administration of the Agency Headquarters Hospital in
Landikotal.

On the students' complaint, the political agent constituted a committee to
initiate probe into the misappropriation of Rs8.5 million in the tender for the
collage repair and renovation.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           November 13, 2012 Tuesday

Nurses plan to intensify stir; Collectorate march today

SECTION: KOZHIKODE

LENGTH: 345 words


KANNUR: The coordination committee of the joint action councils in Kannur and
Thaliparamba, which were formed to support the agitation by the Indian Nurses'
Association (INA), would organize a Collectorate march on Monday. Sunny Joseph
MLA will inaugurate the march.

"This coordination committee comprises representatives of various political
parties as also the representatives of the INA and this march is part of the
effort to intensify our agitation," said E M Vineeth Krishnan, the national
secretary of the INA.

"Though the hospital managements are adamant in their stand against the
agitation, all the political parties are convinced of the demands of the nurses
and they have offered all supports," said the association. They said nearly
2,000 people including 600 nurses, their parents and the general public would
participate in the march.

"Former health minister and CPM leader P K Sreemathi visited the striking nurses
at Koyili hospital and offered all support to us. Prominent Congress leaders
like K Sudhakaran MP and PC Thomas also visited yesterday," he said.

Meanwhile, State Human Rights Commission member Adv K E Gangadharan who visited
the nurses two days back asked the labour commissioner and the director of
health service to study the issue and submit a report.

The INA also claimed that the functioning of the hospitals had been seriously
affected and the managements were illegally using the service of trainees even
in ICUs.

However, the hospital managements said that they were taking the help of the
nurses who had not taken part in the strike. "Apart from the nurses who are not
participating in the strike, we also take the help of the qualified staff in the
nursing colleges that we run," said K Jayarajan, district secretary of the
Qualified Private Medical Practitioners' and Hospitals' Association (QPMPA).

He also said in the hospitals, where nurses were striking they have restricted
inpatient admission and half of the rooms and wards were closed. "Only one ICU
was functioning in these hospitals," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Doyle's health, poll barbs sting Libs

BYLINE: Paul Austin, state political editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 358 words


FORMER state Liberal leader Robert Doyle has embarrassed his successor, Ted
Baillieu, by saying Victoria has a world-class public hospital system and that
as leader he would have "fought like buggery" to run candidates in the Albert
Park and Williamstown byelections.

Mr Doyle made the comments as the Opposition railed against "Labor's continually
failing health system" and as senior Liberals privately criticise Mr Baillieu
for not fighting hard enough to ensure the party was represented in next week's
byelections.

Mr Doyle, who quit as Liberal leader last year and was named chairman of
Melbourne Health by the Bracks cabinet in June, yesterday defended the health
system amid reports of patients facing long waits for ambulances and hospital
treatment.

"If you're in a big car accident or a major trauma somewhere, you wouldn't get
better care than you would get in our major public hospitals," he said, adding:
"But there's no doubt that from time to time, the seams (of the system) are
stretched a bit."

Within hours, Opposition health spokeswoman Helen Shardey issued a statement
saying the hospital system was "reaching breaking point" and suggesting
patients' lives were being put at risk. "Hospitals have been in meltdown for
some time and last week we saw most of our major hospitals go on bypass, with
ambulances lining up outside hospitals trying to off-load patients," she said.

As Premier John Brumby stepped up Labor campaigning for Saturday week's
byelections for the seats vacated by former premier Steve Bracks and former
deputy premier John Thwaites, Mr Doyle made clear he disagreed with the Liberal
Party's decision not to field candidates.

"I would have fought like buggery to get candidates in Albert Park and
Williamstown," he said. "I'm not exactly a quiet, passive, retiring type - I
like a fight. I would have relished a fight with a new Premier and a whole lot
of new ministers."

Mr Baillieu wanted to run a candidate for Albert Park, which is less safe for
Labor than Williamstown, but was rebuffed by his party's administrative
committee, which wanted to save money and resources for the imminent federal
election campaign.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      May 26, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Politics and the hospital board: Levine isn't the only one with party
affiliations

BYLINE: LUIZA CHWIALKOWSKA; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: CITY; Pg. D2


There are Liberals, Conservatives and New Democrats among them, but no one asks
the people who set policy for the new Ottawa Hospital about their political
pasts or affiliations, says Graham Scott, a provincially appointed independent
facilitator who oversaw the hospital amalgamation.

"There is no restriction on (political activism among board members) that I know
of," said Mr. Scott, a Toronto lawyer who has been involved in the mergers of
about 25 hospitals in the past two years. "Politics has nothing to do with the
(selection) process."

That David Levine came under scrutiny for his political affiliation is ironic,
said Mr. Scott, since the board of trustees, not the CEO, sets policy.

"You could argue that there would be a greater reason for concern regarding (the
political affiliations of) board members since the board is a policy-making
body," Mr. Scott said last week. "The CEO has nothing to do with policy. The CEO
makes day-to-day decisions, but can't make major decisions without approval of
the board."

Among the politically connected Ottawa Hospital board members is Don Grant, who
has organized major fund-raising dinners for Prime Minister Jean Chretien and
raised money for Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson's election campaign.

Board member Isabel Metcalfe is the executive vice-president of the Liberal
Party of Canada for Ontario.

Board member Claudette Boyer is a former Liberal riding association president
and ran unsuccessfully for the Ottawa-Vanier seat in Parliament in 1995.

Also on the board is former regional chair Peter Clark who helped elect
conservative MP Jean Pigott around the time Mr. Levine was running for the Parti
Quebecois.

The people who volunteer for boards are active in their communities and
therefore more likely to be politically active, said Mr. Scott, though they
don't join boards in a partisan capacity. Politically active members were in the
minority, he added, and their disparate views "probably balance each other out."

The steering committee that chose the board included people of various political
stripes.

Pierre Richard (who sat on the chairman selection committee) is an active
Conservative supporter. Doug Rowland, who was on the steering committee, was an
NDP MP before joining the public service.

To whom does the board answer?

"It's not fair to say they are unaccountable," Mr. Scott said. "The government
has the right to remove them."

The board is accountable to itself and to the provincial government. The Public
Hospitals Act and the Corporations Act give the board powers that include the
selection of the CEO and policy decisions regarding merging of the Civic,
General, Riverside and Salvation Army Grace hospitals.

Premier Mike Harris said earlier that he would not direct the board in the
Levine matter.

Normally, corporate boards can be elected or defeated by the members of a
corporation. But in the case of the new Ottawa hospital, there is no membership
yet.

The board must decide on a membership structure, Mr. Scott said. Then the
membership will elect or defeat the board.

There are many possible membership structures for the hospital corporation. They
could include representatives of community groups and associations deemed by the
board to have a stake in the policy of the hospital. Or, they could have a
broad-based membership open to anyone willing to pay a dollar to join and vote.

"The membership could be massive or small," Mr. Scott said. "Small towns tend to
have broad-based membership, and big city hospitals tend to limit their
membership to stakeholders."

It won't be until June 1999 that the board will hold an annual meeting, where
one-third of the board will be up for re-election.

How were members chosen?

When the Health Services Restructuring Commission instructed four area hospitals
to amalgamate, the details of the process were left to the hospitals.

The four hospital boards created a 15-member steering committee to run the
amalgamation process. Each hospital nominated three of its existing board
members to the steering committee, which also included the dean of medicine from
the University of Ottawa and a representative from the French Language Services
Network.

The steering committee hired an interim CEO, developed a mission for the new
hospital, and a governance structure under which each hospital appointed
trustees to a new hospital board.

The Restructuring Commission required that the "governance structure of the
Ottawa Hospital be representative of the community served and have regard to the
demographic, linguistic, cultural, economic, geographic, ethnic, religious, and
social characteristics of the Ottawa-Carleton region," said spokesman Paul
Kilbertis. "The plan must ensure that members of the new board have relevant
experience and expertise."

The steering committee decided that the new board was to have a "gender balance"
and be one-third francophone.

Sixteen board members came from the existing hospitals and the committee
appointed eight new directors who had no connection with any of the hospitals.

"They felt it would be healthy to have fresh blood, fresh faces, that weren't
tied in with existing hospitals," said Mr. Scott. "They also wanted to have a
new chair that was independent of existing hospitals."

The steering committee created a nominations subcommittee to choose seven new
directors, as well as a special subcommittee to select the chair, Nick Mulder.

That nominations committee included hospital representatives, plus a number of
people from the community, including representatives of the Ottawa Board of
Trade, District Labour Council, Francophone Businessmen's Association, the
Montfort Hospital, Ottawa Councillor Allan Higdon, regional councillor Madeleine
Meilleur and the Canadian Ethnocultural Council.

The nominations committee received about 80 applications in response to
advertisements placed in newspapers. The people who applied were interested in
health care and community issues, said Mr. Scott. The nomination committee tried
to pick people with knowledge and backgrounds that would be helpful to the
boards, such as a knowledge of health care or finance.

"The committee picked the candidates," said Mr. Scott. "The steering committee
just accepted whoever was recommended by the nominations committee."

The board also included the dean of the University of Ottawa's medical school,
the dean of health sciences, and the president and vice-president of the Medical
Staff Association. The Public Hospitals Act also required that volunteer
association and foundation representatives be on the board.

"They have an enormous task ahead of them," said Mr. Scott of the volunteer
board. "Everyone was told it would be an enormous, time-consuming job."

And that was before David Levine.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LENGTH: 1143 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: Isabel Metcalfe is federal Liberals' Ontario VP.
Black & White Photo: Don Grant has raised funds for Jean Chretien.

Black & White Photo: Claudette Boyer is a former Liberal candidate.

Black & White Photo: Peter Clark is a long-time local political player.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday

County puts strings on offer to help Healthcare District

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 741 words


MARIN COUNTY officials are considering extending a financial helping hand to the
Marin Healthcare District as it prepares to resume management of Marin General
Hospital.

For the county and its residents, there is a great deal at stake in making sure
that this complicated transition is successful, primarily to protect the quality
medical care provided by the doctors, nurses and other staff at Marin General.

The county has more at stake than the $20 million line of credit that officials
have been negotiating to help make sure the change of management can take place
while minimizing impacts on the care on which many Marin residents rely.

This line of credit comes with some big strings attached. It would require the
hospital to continue to provide trauma care, including neurosurgery, and
maintain an adequate number of intensive-care beds and a 17-bed mental health
unit.

It also establishes a limit on Marin General's diversion of ambulances with
patients to other hospitals.

The agreement does not appear to address the need to establish a helipad at
Marin General. Perhaps that life-saving improvement, which is opposed by many of
the hospital's neighbors, is too controversial to deal with.

But political heat didn't stop the county from asking for some political
engineering regarding the management of the Marin Healthcare District board. The
draft pact requires the district board to create a so-called "firewall" board
that would manage the hospital, in theory separating its hands-on management
from the bitter and dysfunctional politics that have dominated Healthcare
District politics for nearly 20 years.

County requirements for hospital services come as little surprise. Supervisors
are rightly worried about preserving these vital services after the departure of
Sutter Health, the health-care giant whose contract to run the hospital comes to
an end in less than two years.

The county's insistence on the creation of a management board raises questions,
even beyond those of public accountability. That same question could be raised
in the way the county has set forth such a requirement. Talks with the
Healthcare board have taken place behind closed doors. Only two supervisors,
Steve Kinsey and Susan Adams, have been involved and their public presentations
on talks' progress and details have been paltry at best.

Although outlined in a Sept. 2 letter from County Administrator Matthew Hymel to
the Healthcare District, supervisors really have had no detailed public
discussion about the county requiring a "firewall" board.

Hymel's letter was made public only after a local health-care activist asked for
it.

A major change in the governance of the hospital coming as a required financial
commitment to the county does not bode well for the district to freely and
openly debate such a move as good public policy.

This is not an issue that should be part of requirements demanded during
closed-door negotiations. It deserves full public debate, with ample efforts to
fully inform district residents about the proposed structural change before the
district approves it.

If the county is worried about extending $20 million to the elected Healthcare
District board and it wants to get involved in political engineering, perhaps it
should consider the option of dissolving the district, which encompasses most of
Marin outside of Novato, and making Marin General a county-run hospital.

Such a move would remove the risk of a hospital board whose politics are
poisonous and replace it with the county Board of Supervisors, an elected board
that has displayed a greater sense of constructive collegiality.

The supervisors could then establish a hospital commission that would have to
comply with public-meeting rules.

The county's requirement to create a "firewall" board is a sign of its lack of
faith in the political leadership of the Healthcare District board. A separate
management board would end the acrimonious political tug-of-war that has
dominated district politics.But the requirement reflects a lack of faith in the
people district voters elect to represent them.

Supervisors want a well-run hospital without the political and financial
responsibility for managing it. That may be wishful thinking.

Supervisors are reluctant to consider such a controversial move because of the
huge governance and financial responsibilities of running a hospital.

Should the Healthcare District stumble, the county may be faced with no other
choice.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2008 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan: Attendants crowding CHK raise security concerns

LENGTH: 992  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, March 22 -- The medical staff in the Civil Hospital Karachi continues
to work in highly vulnerable conditions despite the recent security measures
taken by the administration following a newborn`s kidnapping and threats hurled
at lady doctors by patients` relatives.

According to sources, the insecurity in the hospital is directly related to the
huge number of patients visiting the health facility daily with an equally large
number of attendants that often stay in the health facility in case of a
patient`s admission as well as the influence of political parties, amply visible
from the banners and posters pasted all over the CHK.

The sources also blame the failure of the administration in devising an
efficient life-saving system at the emergency department that, they say, often
creates a conflict.

A visit to the hospital revealed that political parties have set up their
offices in the hospital under different names and one group backed by a ruling
party has reportedly taken over a ward room.

"With political wall-chalking everywhere and attendants resting in the
corridors, on the ground and even on the bricks, the CHK looks anything but a
hospital," comments a senior doctor.

According to estimates, between 700 and 800 people daily visit the hospital`s
emergency section. Between 3,500 and 5,000 people visit its out-patient
departments daily.

Speaking to , doctors said that the attendants who created security problems
usually had the backing of a political party or a resourceful person.

They described the situation in the CHK emergency department as "critical" which
could turn "violent" anytime, especially in the late evening hours.

Although the department is guarded the whole day by security personnel at the
entrance and a police checkpoint has also been set up nearby, these arrangements
seem to be of little effect.

"This is eyewash. The guards pose no resistance to men who come in groups while
the policemen are the one who escape first when there is a trouble. Our life and
dignity is at risk all the time and when it is breached, there is no one to help
us," said a doctor.

The presence of a large number of attendants, most of them were men, inside the
emergency section gave credence to his opinion.

Referring to a recent incident, another doctor said that a man riding a
motorbike and a pillion passenger with a gun-shot wound were allowed to enter
the "dressing room" for treatment.

People associated with different political parties also threaten the staff to
get their patients treated on priority, he said, adding that it was difficult to
perform efficiently under such pressures.

"There are too many patients and it`s humanly not possible to properly attend to
every patient. There are some who are brought in near-to-die condition and we
cannot do much about them. But, people don`t understand. Two weeks ago, a man
grabbed my collar while I was attending to another patient only because I forgot
to tell him the drugs` dosage," said another doctor.

There is a drastic increase in the number of patients after 2pm at the emergency
section after the closure of out-patient departments in the hospital.

Doctors reason that this rise in patients` number is related to the
non-functioning of the Lyari General Hospital emergency in the evening. They
believe that the CHK security issues will resolve to a great extent, if the
emergency department of the Lyari General Hospital starts functioning all-day.

Doctors at the emergency department also complain that the delay in receiving
help from specialists from other departments for trauma patients often strains
patient-doctor interaction and causes a clash.

"At times, patient`s life is in danger when we don`t get specialised support.
Recently, a girl having head injuries received treatment from a neurologist
after an hour. Ironically, it`s a routine affair at the emergency," a doctor
said, adding that the delay in treatment often put their lives at risk because
they had to manage the patient during these crucial hours.

The lack of medical supplies and the malfunctioning of equipment also contribute
to making the situation more stressful, he said.

Explaining problems, house officers - 70 per cent of whom comprise women at the
CHK - said that they felt insecure in the presence of so many male attendants
especially at nights while performing their duties.

"We need to go to other departments to seek medical opinion on specific cases.
The responsibility to take blood samples to the blood bank and, then, to bring
the reports is also ours. Sometimes, we need to take the patient for a scan. So
far, I haven`t encountered any problem, but a sense of insecurity remains," a
house officer who has been working for six months said.

Giving his opinion on political interference, Prof Dr Saeed Qureshi, medical
superintendent, CHK, said that: "It does exist, but we try to contain it as much
as we can."

"Security is a great challenge in hospital visited by hundreds and thousands of
patients and their attendants daily. Many of them come from the interior areas
of the province and have no option but to stay at the hospital till the patient
is discharged. Currently, there is no feasible solution to the problem and I
don`t think this problem could be resolved unless the government makes public
sector hospitals in other districts functional."

The cash-strapped hospital, he said, was spending Rs11 million annually on
security expenses alone. Personnel deputed for security also included private
guards.

Regarding problems at the emergency section, he said that a lot of improvement
had been brought at the department as now facilities for different medical
investigations were now available there while efforts were being made to provide
further assistance to patient Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 26, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Team to Inspect Soviet Mental Hospitals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25


A team of American experts will begin a long-awaited visit to Soviet mental
hospitals next week to determine if political dissidents are still imprisoned
there, American and Soviet officials said today.

The American team plans to interview about 30 current and former mental
patients. It also plans to visit four Soviet mental hospitals, including two
so-called special psychiatric hospitals that have been under police control. The
project will take two weeks. The visit is of considerable political importance
to Moscow and Washington. A positive assessment by the team would help Moscow's
effort to rejoin the World Psychiatric Association and improve the international
standing of its psychiatric profession.

The United States, for its part, hopes that the visit will help resolve concerns
that Soviet patients may still be held in mental hospitals on political grounds.

The American team plans to interview 18 current mental patients who Soviet
dissidents maintain are political prisoners. The Soviet psychiatric
establishment has denied that patients are being held in mental hospitals for
political reasons. The American team is headed by Robert W. Farrand, a Deputy
Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, and Dr.
Loren H. Roth, a professor of psychiatry at the Western Psychiatric Institute
and Clinic at the University of Pittsburgh.

Mr. Farrand and Dr. Roth, who helped negotiate the rules for the visit, have
already arrived in Moscow. The rest of the American team, including specialists
from the National Institute of Mental Health and the American Psychiatric
Association, are scheduled to arrive in Moscow on Sunday.

The two sides have worked out a series of elaborate ground rules for conducting
the visit. Under the rules, Soviet mental patients will be brought to Leningrad
so that they can be interviewed by American psychiatrists, an American
specialist said.

A Soviet patient will have the right to insist that Soviet psychiatrists not be
present at an interview conducted by the American psychiatrists. But at the end
of the interview, Soviet psychiatrists, American psychiatrists and the patient
will meet to jointly discuss the case. At that time, the Soviet psychiatrist can
put forth the justification for why the patient was committed.

An Administration official said the arrangements were intended to allow a full
airing of the case.

But one member of the American team expressed concerns over some of the
arrangements. Some Unresolved Matters Ellen R. Mercer, director of the office of
international affairs at the American Psychiatric Association, expressed concern
that the arrangements might discourage some Soviet citizens who have been
released from mental hospitals from agreeing to interviews with the American
team.

She said some former mental patients do not want to meet with members of the
Soviet psychiatric establishment, which ordered their incarceration, after an
interview with American psychiatrists. An Administration official expressed
confidence that the American team would be successful in conducting its
interviews.

In preparing for the visit, the two sides have resolved some last-minute
problems. One problem reportedly arose when Soviet authorities indicated that
Vladimir Korfidov, a Soviet mental patient, did not want to be interviewed by
the American team. Soviet dissidents disputed that point. An interview can only
take place with the patient's consent. An interview has since been arranged.
One unresolved matter is whether the American team will be denied the right to
visit one of the 18 so-called special psychiatric hospitals, which is in the
Soviet Far East in an area closed to foreigners. The Soviet Ministry of Foreign
Affairs has reportedly informed Washington that it cannot guarantee access to
hospitals in such areas.

An American official said Washington had no information that political prisoners
are being held at the hospital. The American team plans to visit 2 of the 18
special psychiatric hospitals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 21, 1987, Wednesday, Final Edition

Freed Dissident Describes 5-Year 'Horror' in Soviet Mental Clinic

BYLINE: Gary Lee, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 19, 1987


A former KGB agent, just released from a five-year stay in a mental clinic for
passing information to the West, told journalists here today of harrowing
conditions faced by Soviets who run afoul of the law and are placed in
psychiatric hospitals.

According to Vladimir Titov, his years in the Orlov psychiatric hospital were a
"horror" -- months of lying motionless on the bed, watching patients turn to
suicide, being given so many forced injections that his tongue swelled.

Titov, 49, was hospitalized in 1982 after telling westerners that Soviet prison
labor was being used to build the gigantic Siberian natural-gas pipeline. In
all, he spent 12 years in mental clinics after abruptly ending a five-year tour
with the KGB security police in 1961.

Freed last week, Titov was given a visa to Israel and ordered to leave the
Soviet Union by the end of this month, he told journalists.

Titov's account was buttressed by those of other former patients related at a
press conference offered by dissidents for western journalists today, and by
interviews with other ex-patients. These accounts highlight use of one of the
harshest punishments the Soviet Union has in its power to crack down on
political dissidents: hospitalization.

Under the current Soviet human rights thaw, some of the best-known Soviets
hospitalized for their political activities have been released. Earlier this
year, psychiatrist Anatoly Koryagin, imprisoned in 1981 for examining a number
of dissidents who had been placed in mental hospitals and diagnosing them as
sane, was set free and allowed to emigrate.

In an article published recently in the government newspaper Izvestia, a Soviet
journalist and legal expert complained of abuses of Soviet psychiatry and
proposed revision of the terms under which patients are confined.

Titov and other Soviet dissident sources charged, however, that conditions in
the clinics are worsening and political dissidents are still suffering alongside
actual mental patients.

The number of political prisoners in mental hospitals is unknown. Some western
sources estimate about a thousand. It must be "several thousand," Sergei
Grigoryants, a former political prisoner and editor of the independent
periodical Glasnost, told journalists today.

As editor of a new journal devoted largely to Soviet human rights issues,
Grigoryants said, "I see two to three cases every day" of people who have just
been released from a term in a mental hospital for some political offense.
"There must be hundreds of such cases that we know nothing about. Until now, I
had not realized the magnitude of this problem."

One of the biggest difficulties is controlling the terms under which patients
are confined in hospitals, Grigoryants said: "Under the current situation, any
local official can have an opponent or someone he doesn't like committed for an
indefinite period of time. There is no trial, no sentencing and no one to
oversee whether the decision was correct or not."

The doctors are generally not professionals but "sadists," Titov charged.
Patients are given heavy doses of psychotropic drugs, such as tranquilizers, he
said, adding that if they protest they are injected by force.

According to Titov, 11 patients committed suicide during his five-year stay at
Orlov, including one who went to the top of the fire escape and jumped off.

Titov and other former patients interviewed said patients in mental hospitals
include many accused of anti-Soviet propaganda, workers who complained about
work conditions, and Baptists and other religious worshipers.

The lengths of confinement vary. Vladimir Shapilo, 70, has been in a mental
hospital for 38 years, said a spokesman at the press conference.

One 22-year-old Leningrad student told in an earlier interview of being held for
two months of check-ups in a local hospital last winter after he complained of
mandatory college military courses.

The dissidents presented a taped interview that they said was smuggled out of a
hospital in Gegamskii Hills, 60 miles from the Armenian capital of Yerevan.

The patient, Sirvard Abakyan, described how in February she was denied requests
to leave for the West. A member of the Armenian branch of the Helsinki Watch
group of human rights monitors, she told of poor hospital conditions and of
being force-fed drugs. "It's horrible here," she said. "Somebody should try to
get me out."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, LADIMIR TITOV.

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1987 The Washington Post


                              333 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 30, 2004 Thursday Ill Five Star Lift Edition

Maag pulls commercial after hospital complaint Organization fears ad resembles
endorsement

BYLINE: PAUL HAMPEL Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 410 words


A candidate for the Illinois Supreme Court has pulled television and radio ads
for his campaign in response to a complaint from the Shriners Hospitals for
Children.

That organization said the ad violated Internal Revenue Service regulations
prohibiting charitable institutions from endorsing candidates for public office.
The 30-second spots for 5th District Appellate Judge Gordon Maag, a Democrat
from Glen Carbon, began airing Monday on KMOV, KTVI and KSDK, as well as some
radio stations.

In the ads, Maag stated, "I serve on the board of Shriners Hospital. We provide
free medical care for thousands of sick children."

Maag went on to say in the ads that he would fight "frivolous" medical
malpractice lawsuits.

The commercials were filmed at Touchette Regional Hospital in Centreville.

Jay Fleisher, managing attorney for Shriners Hospitals for Children in Tampa,
Fla., called Maag on Wednesday and asked him to pull the ads.

"Judge Maag has assured me that he has given instructions to the Illinois
Democratic Party to immediately pull the ads from all television and radio
stations, and that they will not be aired any further," Fleisher said.

Fleisher said that he had not seen the ads but that conversations with hospital
officers who had seen them indicated to him that "a reasonable person could be
led by the ads to believe that Shriners Hospital was endorsing a candidate for
political office, which is prohibited by our status as a charity."

The commercials were the first to air in the St. Louis market for an Illinois
Supreme Court race.

The campaign of Maag's opponent, Washington County Circuit Judge Lloyd Karmeier,
a Republican from Nashville, Ill., said it would begin airing its own television
ads in the next few days.

A spokesman for Maag, Brendan Hostetler, said the judge had pulled the ad out of
respect for the hospital.

"If that organization is uncomfortable with us talking about the judge's service
(at Shriners) in paid media advertising, we're going to honor that," Hostetler
said. "The judge's respect for that institution is more important to him than a
political campaign."

Hostetler said the campaign would substitute another commercial.

Hostetler declined to disclose how much the television spots cost, or how long
they would run.

A spokesman for Karmeier, Steve Tomaszewski, said his campaign had tracked the
money Maag spent on the commercials and estimated the amount as more than
$180,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: CAMPAIGN 2004 SUPREME COURT

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              334 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                           September 26, 2008 Friday
                                   e1 Edition

Helderberg Hospital is just a name change

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 492 words


In August 2007, Pierre Uys, then the MEC for Health, advised Dr E Erasmus,
senior medical superintendent of Hottentots Holland Hospital, Somerset West,
that the name of the hospital had been changed with immediate effect to
Helderberg Hospital.

This change of name has created considerable confusion among the general public
as well as the medical fraternity.

For many years, until as recently as last year, there was talk of a new hospital
being built in Somerset West to replace Hottentots Holland Hospital.

As the public generally was not informed that the province had decided to
postpone the building of a new hospital, many are under the impression that
Helderberg Hospital is the new hospital and waste time, possibly critical time,
searching for a non-existing hospital.

It is of utmost importance to bring to the attention of the public that
Helderberg Hospital is merely the new name of Hottentots Holland Hospital and is
still to be found at the usual address - Lourensford Road, Somerset West.

E Adams

H van der Walt

Somerset West

Going back to 1994 when Nelson Mandela was released from prison and the ANC
became the dominant political party in South Africa, it was already apparent
that an unholy alliance was forming.

How was it possible for ex-freedom fighters, who now wanted to form a democratic
government, to agree to link up with the South African Communist Party and the
trade unions, who had no idea of politics or the needs of running a country but
simply wanted to screw more money for themselves?

It was obviously simply to entrench themselves into positions of power and
privilege.

I make this statement not as a white racist, but as an employer of about 80
black people in a dairy business in the 1970s when I found it impossible to mix
Zulus and Xhosas.

Fast-forward to September 2008. We have a situation where the president has
resigned, the vice-president has resigned, the minister of finance resigned and
then stayed on, and many others quit. Surely the time is ripe for a new
political party?

One that looks beyond Xhosa, Zulu, white, black, brown, male, female, previously
advantaged, previously disadvantaged - a party that has the interests of the
country and her people at heart, not the selfish interests of a powerful
privileged few.

F R Spangenberg

Somerset West

Considering the sanctimonious and pious utterances by Peter de Villiers since
being made Springbok coach, his recent blatantly racist outburst (on par with
the mindset of ANC leaders), simply cannot be excused with a simple apology.

Having been fully exposed to media coverage since taking on the position, he, of
all people, should have been more circumspect and diplomatic in all that he
uttered.

However, as with this present ruling mob, De Villiers has shown that he is, at
heart, a racist himself.

And to think that the South African Rugby Union has decreed that players wear a
"no to racism" message on their jerseys.

To me it reeks of hypocrisy!

D Beelders

Vasco

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                      May 21, 1998 Thursday Final Edition

Ex-PQer heading hospital in Ottawa fuels unity battle: 'Fire him' clamour
increases

SOURCE: The Canadian Press

BYLINE: Janice Tibbetts

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 931 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A dispute over hiring a former Parti Quebecois candidate to head an Ottawa
hospital exploded into a national unity battle yesterday, pitting separatists
against federalists as David Levine waited to hear whether he would lose his
job.

Politicians from Prime Minister Jean Chretien in Rome to Quebec Premier Lucien
Bouchard in Chicago jumped into the debate over whether Levine's sovereigntist
past makes him the right choice to run Ottawa Hospital, the city's newly
amalgamated mega-hospital.

The political squabbling followed an emotional public meeting Tuesday night,
where crowds bulged into the hallways of a local hospital. Outside, protesters
waved placards that read "Fire Levine" and "Separatists Must Go."

BUILD A BRIDGE

The bilingual anglophone from Quebec ran for the Parti Quebecois almost 20 years
ago, saying he wanted to build a bridge between the English and the French.

"In Canada, political considerations are not a question that we ask for
employment," Chretien said at a news conference in Rome, where he is on a trade
mission.

"We look at the qualities of the person to serve."

That's also the position of the hospital's board of directors, which has
repeatedly defended their choice despite the uproar that has persisted for more
than a week. The hospital has received hundreds of call, some from donors
threatening to stop sending money.

Others describe the furor as a witch hunt that smacks of the McCarthyism of the
1950s in the United States, where suspected communists were rounded up and
blacklisted.

Members of the board refused comment yesterday, saying they wanted to take the
day to reflect on the raucous public meeting before making an announcement on
Levine's future that is expected today or tomorrow.

"Everybody wanted to sleep on it and take a day to reflect after the meeting,"
said a communications consultant hired by the hospital to field calls.

"To tell the truth, they did not expect as many people and as much acrimony."

In Chicago, Bouchard called on Ottawa residents to calm down.

"I am as surprised as many people to see this outburst of intolerance," he said.
"I count on the good sense and democratic values of our fellow citizens in
Ottawa to lower the tone and recognize what counts in all of this is
competence."

Bloc Quebecois Leader Gilles Duceppe was less conciliatory, describing the
outcry as a blow to Quebec that will cast further doubt on whether Quebecers
will want to remain in Canada.

"We find it very upsetting this is happening in Ottawa because it's very close
to home," Duceppe said.

"It's a very bad signal for Canada. It means Canada is no longer a tolerant
society."

He also said it violates the Charter of Rights to deny people work because of
their political beliefs.

The hospital's volunteer board is faced with the task of weighing the public
opposition to Levine keeping his $300,000-a-year job against their contention
that his experience makes him the best person for the job.

The board has also tried to dispel concerns among staff that Levine would
eventually limit jobs to those who are bilingual.

Editorials in the Ottawa Citizen and Ottawa Sun newspapers have called for
Levine's resignation, arguing the debate over his politics will make him an
ineffective administrator as the city tries to cope with provincial budget cuts.

Among other things, there has been friction over western Quebecers using
Ottawa's hospitals, a practice some say is forcing Ontario residents to wait in
line in their own city.

The appointment has divided area mayors and residents.

Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson said this week that Levine has no choice but to resign.

POLITICAL AGENDA

Levine, who could not be reached yesterday, told a news conference late last
week that he has no political agenda. He said he is an experienced hospital
manager who had a long and distinguished career in Quebec before his appointment
last year as the province's envoy to New York.

He noted he worked in Quebec's hospital system under PQ and Liberal governments
and politics has never been an issue in his work.

Levine, who was a member of the PQ from 1975-81, has not commented on his
current political allegiance.

Ontario Premier Mike Harris said he understands why people are upset but it is
up to the board to decide if the appointment is appropriate.

"I think we'd all prefer to have people receiving taxpayer dollars who are
interested in keeping the country together," Harris said in Toronto.

"I don't know if he's a separatist. If he says he's a separatist I'd rather have
somebody who's not a separatist."

Deputy Premier Bernard Landry denounced the public protest as "disgraceful and
profoundly intolerant.

"This controversy does nothing for Ottawa's reputation as the federal capital of
Canada," Landry said in Quebec City.

Unity Minister Stephane Dion accused separatist politicians of trying to make
political gain from the Levine affair.

Chretien said separatist politicians should not be "throwing rocks" at Ottawa,
particularly after the PQ government replaced Claude Dauphin, Quebec's delegate
in Boston, in 1994 because the federalist wasn't comfortable promoting
separation abroad.

LEVINE PROFILE

Appointed: May 1, 1998 as the chief executive officer of Ottawa Hospital

Age: 50

Experience: CEO of Notre-Dame Hospital in Montreal from 1992-1996; 10 years as
CEO of the Verdun General Hospital

Current job: Envoy for Quebec government in New York City since 1997.

Controversy: Member of the separatist Parti Quebecois from 1975-81. Ran
unsuccessfully in a 1979 byelection.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruno Schlumberger and Maria Bohuslawsky, The Ottawa Citizen;
David Levine, left, and chairman of the hospital board Nick Mulder at the press
conference. Photo: Bruno Schlumberger and Maria Bohuslawsky, The Ottawa Citizen
/ David Boon, left, and George Clarkin take part in a Levine demonstration
outside Ottawa Hospital yesterday.

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 1998 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              336 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           September 15, 2006, Friday

Labour ploy to protect hospitals in marginals

BYLINE: Nigel Hawkes Health Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words


A secret meeting has been held by ministers and Labour Party officials to work
out ways of closing hospitals without jeopardising key marginal seats, The Times
can reveal.

Concerns about the political impact of planned hospital closures and other cuts
to the NHS, which had a deficit last year of more than £ 500 million, prompted
ministers to organise the closed-door discussion. Details of the meeting,
revealed in e-mails passed to The Times, show that it included Hazel Blears, the
Labour chairman, political advisers from No 10 and even -at the request of Ms
Blears -a Labour Party representative.

Opposition politicians said yesterday it was "deeply inappropriate" that party
officials should have had an influence over plans drawn up by civil servants for
changes in services on medical grounds. They also expressed concerns that
hospitals in Tory constituencies were more vulnerable.

The e-mails show that Patricia Hewitt, the Health Secretary, called for those at
the meeting to be provided with "heat maps", showing marginal Labour seats where
closures or reconfigurations of health services could cost votes. She also asked
for lists showing hospitals where the European Working Time Directive is likely
to hit hardest, making 24-hour rotas hard to sustain.

Ministers have always insisted that the directive will not affect hospitals, but
the e-mails suggest otherwise. Ms Hewitt may have been seeking to blunt the
impact of the loss of 24-hour care by reconfiguring services to conceal it.

David Nicholson, the new NHS Chief Executive, gave warning this week that
closures and reconfigurations were imminent. He expected there would be about 60
such changes, affecting every strategic health authority (SHA) and focusing
particularly on maternity and accident and emergency services.

The leaked e-mails make it plain that such changes have been considered since at
least May. The first, from Alison Smith, a Department of Health official, refers
to a May 12 submission about "supply-side reconfiguration".

The second, from Ms Hewitt's private secretary, says that the Health Secretary
asked for a political meeting to discuss the submission. She wants the health
ministers Lord Warner and Andy Burnham to attend with their advisers, Ms Blears
and her two advisers, and John McTernan and Paul Corrigan from No 10.

A further e-mail from Ms Hewitt's diary secretary says that Ms Blears has asked
for a party representative to be included. The meeting took place on July 3 at
the Department of Health.

Andrew Lansley, the Tory health spokesman, said: "There is a secret political
debate going on to try to minimise damage to the Labour Party."

A spokesman for Ms Blears confirmed that the meeting had taken place but said
that because it was political there was no record of who was present. "It
wouldn't be unusual for Labour Party press officers to attend meetings with
ministers," he said. "And as Minister without Portfolio, Ms Blears has the
responsibility of providing policy advice to the Prime Minister across all
departments, so she had a second reason for being there."

Ministers are worried that the changes planned by Mr Nicholson may have the same
effect as the removal of an A&E unit from Kidderminster Hospital in 2001, which
led to the Independent candidate Richard Taylor ousting the Labour MP.

After Mr Nicholson's interview appeared, the Department of Health said his
remarks did not mean "wholesale closures of hospitals" but rather that the NHS
needed to work with local communities to decide how best to organise services.

One of the first strategic health authorities to make a move is the East of
England SHA, whose board met yesterday to discuss a review of acute services.

There are 19 district general hospitals in the region and reports suggest that
as many as nine will be downgraded.

Mr Lansley said it was no coincidence that the hospital top of the list for
changes, and the only one specifically targeted in the board papers, for
yesterday's meeting, was Hinchingbrooke -"which happens to be in one of the two
safest Conservative seats in the country".

Leading article, page 19

DANGER LISTS * East of England Strategic Health Authority says some of its 19
hospitals may be too small to provide comprehensive services. Hinchingbrooke in
Huntington tops the list for changes or closure, but no guarantees have been
given for any hospital in Cambridgeshire, Norfolk, Suffolk, Bedfordshire, Essex
or Hertfordshire

* Many A&E departments are under threat. Those reportedly at risk include Chase
Farm in Enfield, Penzance, Northwick Park in Harrow, and Central Middlesex

* Maternity services may be lost at Fairfield Hospital in Bury, Rochdale
Infirmary, Alexandra Hospital in Redditch, and Stroud Maternity Hospital.
Community hospitals also face a doubtful future

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          Berkhamsted & Tring Gazette

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Really, desperately in need of modernisation': Ed Miliband's verdict on our
hospital

BYLINE: David O'neill

LENGTH: 536  words


Ed Miliband said Watford General Hospital is really, desperately in need of
modernisation' during a party political broadcast to the nation last night.

The Labour leader praised the good work of its staff, but said there was a sense
of deep anxiety' among them.

Watford General has been the main hospital for most of Dacorum since Hemel
Hempstead Hospital's A&E closed in 2009, while Labour was in power.

Speaking about Watford General, Mr Miliband said: "This hospital is really,
desperately in need of modernisation.

"There was a plan under the last Labour government - it was got rid of by this
government - to modernise the hospital.

"It is really interesting going to the maternity ward, because there is one bit
that's new - the birthing centre.

"And there's quite a lot of it - the old bit - that's got peeling paint.

"And you know if you are giving birth, it really matters whether the facilities
are good enough or not good enough."

Mr Miliband was filmed alongside doctors, nurses and chief executive of West
Herts Hospitals NHS Trust Samantha Jones, who also oversees the operation of
Hemel Hempstead Hospital.

Mr Miliband said: "There is a sense of deep anxiety. The head nurse in A&E said
to me on the first day I was there: People can't get to see their GP for a week
or two weeks, and they end up in A&E.'

"There are just too many people ending up in A&E, because the services elsewhere
just aren't there. As a basic thing, everyone has the right to expect they can
see a GP within 48 hours - and that is a promise a Labour government will
deliver."

He said the NHS is facing new pressures from the growing elderly population and
new medical technologies, which is making life harder, not easier.

But he said his experience at Watford General made him impatient' to become
Prime Minister, so he can improve the NHS.

He said: "There is a reason why people in this country love the NHS - because of
the values, the people who work in it and the job they do.

"I don't think politicians can get the right solutions to the health service
without seeing exactly what is really going on.

"So I spent two days going around different parts of the hospital. It wasn't
about putting things on show. It was seeing through the eyes of the nurses, the
doctors, the patients, and to try and learn from them.

"Too often politicians come along and say: We are going to propose this big
change to the health service.' It looks good on paper and in Whitehall and in
Westminster, then in practice it causes chaos.

"How can you run the health service just from the top-down without drawing on
that incredible expertise of the people who are doing the work?

"You have got to start from the grassroots, and that's why I did it."

He described the next five years as a crunch moment for the NHS'.

He said: "I dread to think what another five years of the Tories would mean for
the National Health Service."

He accused Tory Prime Minister David Cameron of breaking his promises to protect
the NHS before the last election. He said the NHS and the social services should
work more closely together.

He said: "We have got to put the right principles back at the heart of the NHS:
care and cooperation and compassion, not privatisation and competition."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCG2


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Hemel Today

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Really, desperately in need of modernisation': Ed Miliband's verdict on our
hospital

BYLINE: David O'neill

LENGTH: 536  words


Ed Miliband said Watford General Hospital is really, desperately in need of
modernisation' during a party political broadcast to the nation last night.

The Labour leader praised the good work of its staff, but said there was a sense
of deep anxiety' among them.

Watford General has been the main hospital for most of Dacorum since Hemel
Hempstead Hospital's A&E closed in 2009, while Labour was in power.

Speaking about Watford General, Mr Miliband said: "This hospital is really,
desperately in need of modernisation.

"There was a plan under the last Labour government - it was got rid of by this
government - to modernise the hospital.

"It is really interesting going to the maternity ward, because there is one bit
that's new - the birthing centre.

"And there's quite a lot of it - the old bit - that's got peeling paint.

"And you know if you are giving birth, it really matters whether the facilities
are good enough or not good enough."

Mr Miliband was filmed alongside doctors, nurses and chief executive of West
Herts Hospitals NHS Trust Samantha Jones, who also oversees the operation of
Hemel Hempstead Hospital.

Mr Miliband said: "There is a sense of deep anxiety. The head nurse in A&E said
to me on the first day I was there: People can't get to see their GP for a week
or two weeks, and they end up in A&E.'

"There are just too many people ending up in A&E, because the services elsewhere
just aren't there. As a basic thing, everyone has the right to expect they can
see a GP within 48 hours - and that is a promise a Labour government will
deliver."

He said the NHS is facing new pressures from the growing elderly population and
new medical technologies, which is making life harder, not easier.

But he said his experience at Watford General made him impatient' to become
Prime Minister, so he can improve the NHS.

He said: "There is a reason why people in this country love the NHS - because of
the values, the people who work in it and the job they do.

"I don't think politicians can get the right solutions to the health service
without seeing exactly what is really going on.

"So I spent two days going around different parts of the hospital. It wasn't
about putting things on show. It was seeing through the eyes of the nurses, the
doctors, the patients, and to try and learn from them.

"Too often politicians come along and say: We are going to propose this big
change to the health service.' It looks good on paper and in Whitehall and in
Westminster, then in practice it causes chaos.

"How can you run the health service just from the top-down without drawing on
that incredible expertise of the people who are doing the work?

"You have got to start from the grassroots, and that's why I did it."

He described the next five years as a crunch moment for the NHS'.

He said: "I dread to think what another five years of the Tories would mean for
the National Health Service."

He accused Tory Prime Minister David Cameron of breaking his promises to protect
the NHS before the last election. He said the NHS and the social services should
work more closely together.

He said: "We have got to put the right principles back at the heart of the NHS:
care and cooperation and compassion, not privatisation and competition."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCHG


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Tring Today

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Really, desperately in need of modernisation': Ed Miliband's verdict on our
hospital

BYLINE: David O'neill

LENGTH: 536  words


Ed Miliband said Watford General Hospital is really, desperately in need of
modernisation' during a party political broadcast to the nation last night.

The Labour leader praised the good work of its staff, but said there was a sense
of deep anxiety' among them.

Watford General has been the main hospital for most of Dacorum since Hemel
Hempstead Hospital's A&E closed in 2009, while Labour was in power.

Speaking about Watford General, Mr Miliband said: "This hospital is really,
desperately in need of modernisation.

"There was a plan under the last Labour government - it was got rid of by this
government - to modernise the hospital.

"It is really interesting going to the maternity ward, because there is one bit
that's new - the birthing centre.

"And there's quite a lot of it - the old bit - that's got peeling paint.

"And you know if you are giving birth, it really matters whether the facilities
are good enough or not good enough."

Mr Miliband was filmed alongside doctors, nurses and chief executive of West
Herts Hospitals NHS Trust Samantha Jones, who also oversees the operation of
Hemel Hempstead Hospital.

Mr Miliband said: "There is a sense of deep anxiety. The head nurse in A&E said
to me on the first day I was there: People can't get to see their GP for a week
or two weeks, and they end up in A&E.'

"There are just too many people ending up in A&E, because the services elsewhere
just aren't there. As a basic thing, everyone has the right to expect they can
see a GP within 48 hours - and that is a promise a Labour government will
deliver."

He said the NHS is facing new pressures from the growing elderly population and
new medical technologies, which is making life harder, not easier.

But he said his experience at Watford General made him impatient' to become
Prime Minister, so he can improve the NHS.

He said: "There is a reason why people in this country love the NHS - because of
the values, the people who work in it and the job they do.

"I don't think politicians can get the right solutions to the health service
without seeing exactly what is really going on.

"So I spent two days going around different parts of the hospital. It wasn't
about putting things on show. It was seeing through the eyes of the nurses, the
doctors, the patients, and to try and learn from them.

"Too often politicians come along and say: We are going to propose this big
change to the health service.' It looks good on paper and in Whitehall and in
Westminster, then in practice it causes chaos.

"How can you run the health service just from the top-down without drawing on
that incredible expertise of the people who are doing the work?

"You have got to start from the grassroots, and that's why I did it."

He described the next five years as a crunch moment for the NHS'.

He said: "I dread to think what another five years of the Tories would mean for
the National Health Service."

He accused Tory Prime Minister David Cameron of breaking his promises to protect
the NHS before the last election. He said the NHS and the social services should
work more closely together.

He said: "We have got to put the right principles back at the heart of the NHS:
care and cooperation and compassion, not privatisation and competition."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MHC4


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                              July 18, 2016 Monday

Charrsadda dilapidated condition draw attention of political parties

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 198

LENGTH: 331  words


District Headquarter Hospital (DHQ) Charrsadda dilapidated condition draw
attention of political parties and a resolution 31 points charge sheet was
proposed against the administration of DHQ Hospital. According to details, Save
the DHQ Hospital movement meeting took place under the banner of Jamaat-i-Islami
youth wing. In the meeting members of different Union Councils Amir and General
Secretaries participated. Local elected representatives Qari Noor-ul-Ameen,
Zulfiqar, Muhammad Ismail, Mudasar Shah, Gohar Rahman, Imtiaz Ali Shah,
Aman-Ullah, Muhammad Arif, Imtiaz Ali, Ishaq, Wasaal and others also
participated.

The Charge- sheet was consisting of 31 points which contains complaints with
regards to Hospital stuff and facilities. Some of the prominent points are lack
of class 4 stuff in total 142 requited stuff only 67 are coming regularly while
others are sitting at home and taking salaries. Medicines are issued on the
names of patients which are wrongly sells in outside market. The MS Doctor
Muhammad Ali of Management Cadre is running illegal clinic. Hospital electricity
was illegally sold to residential houses, while patents suffer due to
un-availability of power. After 12 O\'clock no lady Doctors are present in Gynea
and Emergency wards. Doctors refer minor patients to Peshawar hospitals.

Machinery worth in millions is not operational and getting rusted due to which
patients had to leave for other cities for treatment. Two stores in DHQ Hospital
are allotted to people of the chose of administration. Doctors do not give
proper time to O.P.D and send patients to their private clinics. At late night
nurses and class 4 treat patients due to unavailability of doctors. The
condition of hygiene in BHQ is very bad and bad smell spread many diseases. The
Participants vowed to fight till their last breathe and will take other
political parties, civil society, Business community into confidence, to ensure
good treatment for patients by providing them facilities.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             March 24, 2000, Friday

HOSPITAL HOPE AS SPENDING GOES UP

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 158 words


MIDLAND hospital campaigners are hoping increased spending on the National
Health Service announced in the Budget will help their battle.

Members of the Save Kidderminster Hospital Campaign and the local political
group, Health Concern, are fighting to prevent services at the General Hospital
in the town from being downgraded.

They claimed today that the accident and emergency service at the hospital
should no longer be under threat because of a lack of finance.

Worcestershire Health Authority's review of healthcare in the county will see
some services transferred to a new pounds 91 million 'super' hospital currently
being built at Newtown, Worcester.

But Gordon Brown's budget is seen as a chance for investment in local services.

Dr Richard Taylor, campaign chairman, said that he hoped this would lead to the
scrapping of 'rationing by postcode for treatment of cancer, heart disease and
neurological diseases'.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              342 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Northern Miner (Australia)

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday
                                  1 - Edition

Hospitals campaign `political'

BYLINE: MICHAEL SAUNDERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words


michael.saunders@thenorthernminer.com.au

A QUEENSLAND Nurses Union representative believes Charters Towers Hospital and
Rehabilitation Centre are at risk of privatisation by the State Government.

QNU assistant secretary Des Elder said the hospital and a number of other health
facilities across North Queensland could be up for sale under State and Federal
privatisation policies.

Mr Elder joined a number of nurses and midwives outside Townsville Hospital
recently to protest the move.

``The State LNP and the Federal Liberals and Nationals are now clearly in the
business of privatising our free public hospital system, but are trying to hide
or disguise it,'' Mr Elder said.

``We are going to ensure the people of Queensland, including the state's nurses
and midwives, know exactly what this LNP State Government are up to in terms of
our hospitals and community health services.'' Mr Elder said the ``Not For
Sale'' campaign would include two weeks of radio advertising in Charters Towers,
Townsville and Mount Isa.

However Health Minister Lawrence Springborg believes the scare campaign put
forward by the QNU is simply a political ruse by the Labor Party, with nurses
being exploited as a result.

``Not one existing Queensland hospital is listed for sale anywhere except on the
Queensland Nurses Union website,'' Mr Springborg said.

``Union bosses are hoodwinking their members by promoting the sale of every
hospital in North Queensland.

``It is a naked bid for the political benefit of the ALP,'' he said.

Mr Springborg said the nurses union was driving a campaign to force the sale of
public hospitals onto the public agenda.

``I question their ethics and their objectives,'' Mr Springborg said. ``This is
the same union that said nothing when Labor mismanagement left nurses and
midwives and their families entirely without pay and food on the table for weeks
on end.

``It beggars belief that in 2013 nurses remain so badly represented,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MIN


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            April 23, 1997 Wednesday

Hospital closing cited as unity issue  Ontario's merger plan will fuel national
debate, Montfort supporters contend

BYLINE: BY RICHARD MACKIE and IJEOMA ROSS The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 974 words


Francophones in Eastern Ontario are playing the national-unity card in their
attempts to get the government to save the only French-language teaching
hospital in the province.

Yesterday, a group trying to save Montfort Hospital in Ottawa rolled a
132,000-signature petition into the legislature on a stretcher. Liberal MPP
Gilles Morin, whose riding includes Montfort, received the petition that calls
on the government's hospital-restructuring commission to reconsider its
recommendation to merge Montfort's services with Ottawa General Hospital.

"The issue of Montfort has grown beyond the concerns of individuals whose access
to health care in their own language would be adversely affected to a broader
concern about the rights of a historical minority in the province of Ontario,"
he said.

At a news conference, Montfort president Gerald Savoie said there are also sound
financial reasons not to close the hospital. Montfort, he said, had been praised
for being the most cost-efficient hospital in the province only days before the
commission's February announcement about the merger plan.

"It will cost roughly $11-million more to do the care [in another hospital] than
for Montfort to stay a hospital," he said.

Without trying, Montfort has been drawn into a discussion on the effect the
decision could have on the national-unity debate and the coming federal
election.

"To us, this is the most dangerous question since Meech," said Gisèle Lalonde,
president of the SOS Montfort campaign. ". . . To maintain the recommendation to
close Montfort will prove that Canada -- which we like to believe is tolerant of
its minorities -- is a failure, and the prospect of such a failure has already
been noticed widely in the province of Quebec and will no doubt be exploited in
the near future by these forces of separation."

She called on Premier Mike Harris to assume Ontario's traditional role as
defender of a bilingual Canada and support the rights of 40 per cent of
franco-Ontarians who live in the Ottawa region.

Brian Tanguay, a political-science professor at Wilfrid Laurier University, and
other veteran political observers warned in interviews recently that closing
Montfort would give Quebec Premier Lucien Bouchard and fellow separatists
something they could cite as evidence that Canada has failed to protect the
rights of the French-speaking minority outside Quebec.

The potential volatility of the issue can be seen by the fact that both Mr.
Bouchard and Prime Minister Jean Chrétien were quick to ask Mr. Harris to
intervene to keep the hospital open.

The issue also has been jumped on by anglophones in Quebec, who say they fear
closing Montfort could open the way for the Quebec government to make further
cuts to English-language health services.

"It doesn't bode well for the future of Canada," said Michael Hamelin, president
of Alliance Quebec, the province's major English-language-rights group. It is
supporting the franco-Ontarians in their fight to keep the hospital open on the
grounds that provinces must protect the rights of their linguistic minority.

But switching tactics and allowing Montfort to remain open would be a risky
strategy for the Ontario government, said Michael Bliss, a history professor at
the University of Toronto and a veteran analyst of the province's political
scene.

He said that to allow Montfort to remain open while closing hospitals in other
communities would invite accusations that the government had bowed to pressure
from Quebec and had favoured franco-Ontarians.

"It's going to cause a lot more resentment out there if Montfort is singled out
for special consideration, that's clear," he said in an interview.

Mr. Harris and Health Minister Jim Wilson have said repeatedly that the
government is determined to avoid any action that would suggest special
treatment for Montfort or that the government is interfering with the
commission's decisions on which hospitals should be closed.

Although Mr. Wilson and his deputy minister sent a letter to the commission
suggesting that some of Montfort's programs could be preserved at a new
hospital, Mr. Wilson and Mr. Harris were adamant that the commission will make
the final decisions.

The Premier reiterated his position yesterday morning and dismissed the concerns
about national unity.

"I don't believe decisions made in Ontario in the best interests of Ontario
francophones ought to have much to do with unity vis à vis other provinces," he
said on his way into a caucus meeting.

"They may be trying to play a political card, but it's a political world. That's
why we've tried to depoliticize the decision making and get sound health-care
decision making made by professionals."

About 2,500 Montfort supporters staged a march when Mr. Harris spoke at a
Conservative Party fund-raising dinner in Ottawa last Wednesday. They were there
to press the argument by SOS Montfort that French-language hospital services
would swiftly disappear if they were confined to "a ghetto" in a larger,
English-speaking complex. Such a complex centred at Ottawa General has been
proposed by the restructuring commission.

"It's going to be an issue" in the federal election, said Michel Gratton, a
spokesman for SOS Montford.

In addition to the support from the Alliance Quebec, SOS Montfort is receiving
backing from sovereigntists, Mr. Gratton said.

"It's a national issue if we can't keep the only francophone hospital in
Ontario," he said.

Jeff Rose, a former deputy minister of intergovernmental affairs in Ontario who
is now a professor at the University of Toronto, reinforced Mr. Gratton's
comments.

The closing "is already being portrayed in the [Quebec] media as evidence that
there is no quid pro quo in the treatment of francophones on the west side of
the Ottawa River, as compared with the way in which anglophones are treated in
Quebec."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1997 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 26, 2002

HEALTH CHIEFS SAY SORRY TO PATIENTS' FAMILIES AS BLAIR CALLS ON PUBLIC TO
SUPPORT THE NHS AND ITS STAFF; AND FINALLY, AN APOLOGY

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 455 words


THE hospital at the centre of a political storm over its treatment of three
vulnerable patients has finally apologised to them.

Managers at the Whittington Hospital were forced into the climbdown after public
outcry over the alleged neglect of 94-year-old Rose Addis.

Hospital officials admitted a catalogue of blunders and said they were sorry for
a racial slur against Mrs Addis after a senior member of staff claimed she had
refused treatment by black nurses.

They also apologised to the families of Sidney Hockley and 13-year-old James
Scott-Faulkner who had complained about their treatment.

And Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith yesterday accused Tony Blair of using hospital
staff as a "human shield" and angrily attacked him for orchestrating smears
against anyone who dares to criticise Labour's record.

Mr Duncan Smith was responding after Mr Blair accused him of running down
Britain's hard-working hospital staff.

He said: "This is the ultimate smear in a week of smears from this Government.
The Prime Minister's idea of a debate on public services is to threaten anyone
who dares criticise his dreadful record.

"The Prime Minister should stop using doctors and nurses, police officers and
teachers, as a human shield and start to account for his own failure to reform
public services after five years of promises."

But Mr Blair hit back by saying that the Conservative Party was attacking public
service workers to score political points.

The Prime Minister, who launched his staunchest defence of hospital staff, said:
"At present they confine themselves to denigrating everything about the public
services - running them down, saying the services are lousy - so people feel
it's all hopeless, nothing works, that any investment is just wasted."

"I say to those who are undermining our public services: If you're on the side
of the people who use public services, you should be on the side of the people
who work in public services, as they make the reforms vital to those services.
If you're on the side of the patient, you should be on the side of the nurse,
the doctor, the hospital staff."

And Whittington Hospital's medical director Professor James Malone-Lee has
spoken out in support of staff. He said: "They are the finest group of doctors I
have worked with in 30 years. I am bitterly distressed that my staff are being
subjected to these kind of accusations. These people work hard for the care of
their patients. I feel very upset about things being said about the nursing
staff."

Professor Malone-Lee, a Labour Party member, also defended his own political
allegiances, adding:

"I have sufficient integrity to recognise that I must separate that from my
job."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              345 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 18, 2004

WHAT TOOK YOU SO LONG?; HEALTH SECRETARY FINALLY PLEDGES A CAMPAIGN TO CLEAN UP
OUR HOSPITALS TO FIGHT MRSA SUPERBUG

BYLINE: By Lianne Kolirin

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 436 words


HEALTH Secretary John Reid has promised to launch a new drive on hospital
cleanliness in a bid to tackle hospital infections like the MRSA superbug.

The new Chief Nursing Officer, to be appointed this week, will be instructed to
make hospital hygiene her first priority, Dr Reid said yesterday.

"I believe that cleanliness in hospitals should be the responsibility of the
nurses and the matrons, " he told the BBC1 Breakfast with Frost programme.

"The top priority for the top nurse w ill be cleanliness in hospitals." At the
end of last month, Dr Reid promised that there would be "no more cut-price,
two-tier cleaning contracts" signed in the NHS.

Addressing the recent Labour Party conference, he said: "Cleanliness is not an
optional extra in hospitals. It is the foundation on which everything else is
built." Mr Reid has already ordered health staff to observe better standards of
cleanliness and hand-washing in a bid to counter deaths from MRSA.

In his conference speech, Mr Reid signalled that he planned to accelerate the
redistribution of health funds, ensuring the neediest areas got the biggest
allocation. He said that under the agenda for change, the minimum hourly rate
paid to NHS staff would not be the current national minimum wage of £4.85 an
hour, but £5.69.

And he indicated that he hoped to save the NHS hundreds of millions of pounds a
year by driving through a tough pricing deal with drugs companies later this
year.

Dr Reid also indicated yesterday that the health white paper expected next month
would include measures to curb smoking in public places, while stopping short of
outright bans such as those in Ireland and New York. "We have to find a British
way. Most people want us to get a compromise to protect people's rights, " he
said.

"The status quo isn't an option and I want to move that balance of rights in
favour of the 75 per cent who don't smoke so that they have the bias of rights.
The vast majority of people want smoke-free atmospheres." Earlier this year Dr
Reid sparked a furious row when he said that the poor should be allowed to enjoy
smoking.

He angered Downing Street, medical experts and anti-smoking groups by claiming
cigarettes are one of the few pleasures left for poor people living in poor
housing.

Former smoker Dr Reid said: "I do not think the worst problem on our sink
estates by any means is smoking. It is an obsession of the learned middle class.

"What enjoyment does a 21-year-old single mother of three living in a council
sink estate get? The only enjoyment sometimes they have is to have a cigarette."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              346 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Abbotsford Times (British Columbia)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Massive costs are attached

BYLINE: The Times

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 292 words


It's probably a decade too late, but for most citizens in the Lower Mainland,
this month's hospital road show by the Liberals was still a welcome sight.

Health Minister Michael de Jong unveiled what could be an up to $750 million
redevelopment of Royal Columbian Hospital.

A day later, Premier Christy Clark was promising a major upgrade and renovation
of St. Paul's Hospital, saying there was half a billion dollars in the 2012
budget for the job. And, of course, in neighbouring Burnaby, a planning
committee is gathering input for redevelopment of that hospital.

NDP naysayers say the announcements are pure political propaganda intended to
boost the Liberals' sagging popularity.

And, there's no question that the announcement for RCH seems a bit premature
given that nothing concrete would really happen at the most optimistic - for at
least five to seven years. But de Jong also gave RCH a 150-day deadline to
reduce waiting times.

And, yes, we've heard those promises before as well.

But the reality is that no matter which political party is in power during the
next 10 to 20 years, hospitals and health care will be critical. The baby boomer
generation is about to peak - and all those aging hips and knees will put a huge
strain on the system. Combine that with a potential mini baby boom, and we may
all be looking back at today's surgery wait-lists and emergency room traffic
jams with fond memories.

The question isn't whether the Liberals are serious or not about these
announcements. The question is: can taxpayers afford several massive hospital
redevelopments in the near future?

Our guess is that neither political party wants to tell taxpayers that there's a
massive price tag coming down the line-unless they can blame it on the other
party.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Abbotsford Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Roscommon Herald

                                  July 5, 2011

Council should take control of hospital

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 382 words


In light of very poor political leadership in Europe the people of Roscommon
must now look beyond the short-term political scars at local and national level
of the removal of major acute services from Roscommon Hospital. As a united
Roscommon people we must, with open arms, embrace a paradigm shift with
Roscommon County Council taking over control of Roscommon Hospital in the legal
format of a not for profit arms length company.

Clearly this would be the best chance in a generation to meaningfully alter the
way acute hospital services are run in Roscommon. Such an arm length not for
profit company would allow for Ireland's first nurse led hospital to be a
training hospital and create a whole new landscape in hospital care throughout
Ireland, being financially controlled by our elected Roscommon county
councillors at monthly meetings.

The scale of the challenge is immense, but the immediate rewards are security of
retention of all hospital services into the future. The bedrock of such a
proposal would be all our elected political representatives in united fashion
gathering support at Dail level, for a legal instrument to be passed by
Oireachtas that would allow medical doctor recruitment from India or Pakistan,
five year legal immunity for the arms length company from any court action,
joining together of A+E and intensive care services, setting of remuneration
rates and working practices for medical consultants.

It may be a marathon or a sprint for Roscommon Council to take over the running
of Roscommon County Hospital, but it needs to be done so as to secure the
continued provision of full hospital services and the meaningful powers and
immunity by legal statue instrument of Oireachtas, to run our own local hospital
in a democratic and equitable nurse led model way for the population of
Roscommon.

The local medical, nursing, legal and administrative skills mix, is abundant in
Roscommon hand in hand with the political firepower to take this opportunity,
presented to us by our Taoiseach Enda Kenny TD in his decision, delivered
personally in Roscommon, to remove our major acute services from Roscommon
Hospital mortally wounding our very way of Life in north and south Roscommon.

is mise le meas

Ger o Brien BA (Hons ) LLB (Hons) BA RGN RMN.

3 The Plains

Ballinagare

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 21, 1994

BBC HOSPITAL DRAMA UNDER TORY ATTACK;
MP alleges propaganda in series about junior doctors

BYLINE: ANDREW CULF, MEDIA CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 397 words


A POLITICAL row was brewing last night over a hard-hitting BBC drama which
focuses on the pressures faced by junior doctors in an over-stretched National
Health Service.

A Conservative member of the Commons health service select committee said
Cardiac Arrest, which begins on BBC1 tonight, would "put the worst possible
gloss" on the NHS to pull in viewers.

David Congdon, MP for Croydon North East, pointed to Casualty, the BBC hospital
drama, which he said contained "all the usual propaganda" and in nearly every
episode set out to show that the NHS was short of money and had too many
managers.

The BBC hit back, saying Mr Congdon had not seen Cardiac Arrest. The
scriptwriter, a junior hospital doctor using the pen name Dr John MacUre, said:
"It is deliberately apolitical."

The drama, filmed in an almost documentary style, focuses on 80-hour weeks
worked in overcrowded wards, showing junior doctors making mistakes and turning
to drink to cope.

The timing is sensitive after the death of Dr Alan Massie, aged 27, who
collapsed at the end of an 86-hour week at Warrington district general hospital.

Dr MacUre said: "If you've worked for 30 to 40 hours in a situation where you
are under great pressure to do something you don't want to do, you don't hold
the Prime Minister personally responsible.

"I don't want people to think the reason junior doctors are treated so shabbily
is because any given political party is in power. Any political party would
treat us as badly as another. No one makes any political comment in Cardiac
Arrest and I certainly have no political axe to grind."

He said it was not make-believe but was the first drama to give a voice to a
group of dedicated young people who felt betrayed, misunderstood and
unappreciated.

Margaret Matheson, the producer, said the series was not a message to the
government.

David Blunkett, the shadow health secretary, said: "Anything which highlights
the appalling pressure under which junior doctors are forced to work can only be
positive."

The six-part drama begins at 9.30pm. Alan Yentob, the BBC1 controller, has
already ordered a further eight episodes.

The political debate has echoes of an intervention in 1986 by Edwina Currie and
other Tory MPs who said Casualty was anti-Government propaganda. Angels, another
hospital soap, was also criticised.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              349 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 1, 2003, Thursday

WARD ZONE;
 BROWN AND BLAIR CLASH OVER NHS

BYLINE: PAUL GILFEATHER WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 397 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNHEALTHY DEBATE: Blair and Brown sit together yesterday at Prime
Minister's Question Time. Left: Alan Milburn


GORDON Brown squared up for a battle with Tony Blair yesterday by putting the
boot into the PM's flagship foundation hospitals scheme.

Under Mr Blair's scheme, NHS Trusts selected as foundation hospitals will be
able to opt-out of Whitehall control to set their own financial priorities.

But, the Chancellor told the Commons Treasury Select Committee that foundation
hospitals had to stay within the NHS budget he has set out for the next five
years.

He said: "We have got to work within a very generous settlement that takes us to
2008.

"Hospitals cannot borrow off the balance sheet. Therefore the additional
investment that hospitals make, whether foundation hospitals or not, has got to
be kept within the NHS budget.

"That has been resolved and there is no question of that."

Mr Brown also appeared to contradict Health Secretary Alan Milburn's belief that
in time all hospitals will become foundation trusts.

He said: "I don't know how many hospitals will become foundation hospitals.

"I don't know at what rate they will become foundation hospitals. They have got
to meet certain tests."

And he refused to deny that non-foundation hospitals would lose out on money.

When pressed on whether hospitals which stayed under Whitehall control would
suffer by not having the same fundraising powers, he said: "I am not going to
get into this."

Mr Brown's outburst is sure to bolster a rebellion among Labour MPs due to
culminate next week during a Commons debate. Some 130 backbenchers, who fear
foundation hospitals will create a two-tier health care system, have signed a
Commons motion opposing the scheme.

Labour Treasury committee member George Mudie said: "This is going to be the
hottest issue in Parliament since Iraq, with maybe a bigger revolt."

And its Labour chairman, John McFall, told the Chancellor he must convey the
anger felt by MPs to Mr Blair. He said: "Your comments, however valiant, have
not persuaded our committee. You better have good answers for George Mudie et
al."

Mr Blair also faced hostile questioning at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour
Party yesterday, but Mr Milburn attacked those fighting the changes. He said:
"Now is not the time to back off reform.

"I freely admit that this is a very controversial policy but I believe it is
absolutely the right policy."

paul.gilfeather@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.


                              350 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Ottawa South News

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Meet the Ottawa South Communist Party candidate: Larry Wasslen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978  words


Larry Wasslen is a new face on the Ottawa South election campaign trail, but has
sought to be a political voice in past election races elsewhere in Ottawa.

Wasslen, 63, said he is a strong advocate for public healthcare, state-funded
education and workers' rights. He was played a large role in forming the first
union at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario in the early 1980s,
advocating for better wages.

The majority of Wasslen's 40-year nursing career was in the neonatal intensive
care unit at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario and the General campus
of the Ottawa Hospital. He retired in 2013 after working in the special care
nursery at the Montfort Hospital.

The year after he retired, Wasslen represented the Communist Party in the 2014
provincial election in the Ottawa-Centre riding. Prior to that, he served as
campaign manager for Stuart Ryan who ran for the Communist Party in Ottawa
Centre at the federal level.

Born in Winnipeg, Man., the father of three and grandfather of four has resided
in Orl)ans since 1990 with his wife of almost 40 years, Ninfa.

Q: Why are you running?

"I'm running to give the voters the opportunity to choose between any one of the
neo-liberal agendas that the various major political parties are offering - the
Conservatives, which we consider to be a fairly far-right agenda.

"But the Liberals and the NDP are basically running a neo-liberal austerity
agenda, and they're just offering a tweaking of the current pro-war,
pro-capitalist agenda.

"And we want to offer people an opportunity to look at a socialist agenda.

"It entails things like full-time employment, a major employment effort with an
emphasis on cutting down the unemployment rate, a full employment strategy,
higher wages, some conditional ideas such as nationalizing the banks and the
extraction industries, such as oil and gas and the mining industries, much
stronger public health orientation, state-funded education, from Kindergarten
through to university - a typical socialist approach to running the economy and
delivering social services."

Q: Detail your past political and civic experience or activism at any level of
government or political party.

"I was one of the nurses who led the formation of the first union at the
children's hospital. That was in the early '80s. The Ontario Nurses Association
was the first union to establish itself at CHEO and I played a significant role
in that effort.

"One of the things I was fighting for was equal pay because the nurses at the
children's hospital were making 10 per cent less than the nurses at the
General," he said.

"As a registered nurse, I was also in favour of fighting for public education,
public healthcare, reinforcing the Canadian Health Act and opposing
privatization on many fronts in the health-care field," he said.

Q: What is the biggest federal issue facing Ottawa South and how has it been
handled to date? How would you approach it?

"I think one of the big issues is the cost of housing. People are having a great
deal of difficulty making ends meet. So one of the things the Communist Party is
fighting for is large-scale investment in low-cost public housing, co-operative
housing, to reduce the costs for people and to increase the amount of available
residences people could have access to.

"The other thing we're looking for is much better wages for workers, full-time
employment with benefits for workers. One of the things we're advocating for is
a workers' bill of rights and make unionization easier, which would make
strike-breaking illegal and give workers a chance to catch up on the wage front,
because over the last many, many years, even decades, wages have been stagnating
or dropping for a large section of the population."

Q: What are the biggest federal issues affecting the Ottawa region? How will you
address them?

"The Harper regime has devastated public services in Ottawa. There have been so
many layoffs and cuts, so stopping the austerity agenda of the Harper regime is
a big issue for us.

"Increasing wages is big. One of the other things i would say is important is
state-funded education.

"Certainly, we support light rail and mass transportation. We'd like to see that
go ahead and that should be federally funded."

Q: Nationally, what do you view as the biggest issues facing Canada, and how do
you plan to address them?

"A very big issue facing Canada is this pro-war agenda of the Harper regime.
It's also very much an NDP-Liberal problem because they fully support this kind
of foreign policy. Not just overseas fighting ISIS, but the Harper regime's
foreign policy of regime change.

"If they don't like a government, they go in and bomb that country. They did it
in Libya. They participated in Afghanistan and they're participating in Iraq and
Syria. They're destabilizing these countries, and there's a massive refugee
problem and they say it's not our problem. We're not going to deal with that.

"Canada has to develop a different foreign policy of peace and disarmament. This
is a war crime - to go off and start a war, and the vast amount of people who
are hurt in these efforts are ordinary working class people, women, children and
workers. It's time for peace."

"These so called free-trade agreements are also a great threat to sovereignty
and democracy in Canada. These are basically secret trade deals that open up
Canada to foreign markets, to capitalists, and would make it illegal for Canada
to implement certain policies. For example, public education, public
healthcare."

To learn more about the Communist Party's election platform, go to
communist-party.ca/platform.

Other candidates in the federal Ottawa South electoral district include
Conservative Dev Balkissoon, Green John Redins, Liberal incumbent David
McGuinty, Libertarian Damien Wilson and New Democrat George Brown.

*Editor's note: Some answers have been edited for length or clarity.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                                 Copyright 2015
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                             August 10, 2007 Friday

Commentary: The Pursuit of Justice: Mediation is needed now to resolve P.G.
hospital crisis

BYLINE: Steven I. Platt

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 921  words


As the "hospital crisis" in the Washington Metropolitan area deepens, its
dimensions have become increasingly more alarming.

"Greater Southeast Community Hospital and Prince George's Hospital Center serve
thousands of the region's most vulnerable people, many of whom cannot afford
medical care. But the issues that have pushed the two institutions to the edge
of failure go far beyond the burden of poor and uninsured patients," say Susan
Levine and Rosalind S. Helderman, staff writers for The Washington Post.

The causes of these two hospitals moving from one crisis to another in the last
few years include leadership and funding issues which are longstanding and
unresolved, as well as unattended allegations of poor management. Perhaps most
of all, protracted political acrimony and the accompanying instability and
uncertainty of funding and funding sources have paralyzed management and the
decision-making processes at both of these hospitals.

The lack of resolution of these problems has now resulted in litigation of those
issues over which the circuit court has subject-matter jurisdictions. By
definition, however, the court does not have jurisdiction to address political
questions and the accompanying managerial deficiencies resulting from personal
and political acrimony and intrigue. To complicate the matter even further, the
political and personal feuding which underlies this dispute more than the
individuals involved wish to admit or even realize is getting worse, not better.

Most importantly, and obviously, the court can't address management issues which
aren't based on contract principles or other statutory or case-based rights and
responsibilities.

This was evidenced most recently when the Circuit Court for Prince George's
County addressed the Prince George's Hospital board's request for preliminary
injunctive relief. Preliminary, and therefore temporary, relief was provided in
the form of a $2 million injection of funds to deal with the "imminent" problem
of the hospital needing funds to continue to operate until the next hearing.

That was legally all the court had authority to do at that time. So Judge Dwight
Jackson did all he could legally do to prevent what appeared to be a result
which would be "devastating. " The court certainly did not address any issues
other than the threat of "imminent and irreparable harm," which the judge was
convinced would occur if he did not act. Nor did the circuit court intend to do
more because it had no authority to go beyond the relief granted at this stage
of the legal proceedings.

The bottom line is that litigation will not produce a long-term solution to a
crisis that has resulted from all of the causes listed earlier in this column
because litigation is a process that doesn't address the underlying causes of
the economic, political, personal, demographic and policy disputes that have
caused the crisis and prevented a resolution of the issues to this date.

Nor can litigation frame the ultimate issue - which is "what if these two
critical health care providers collapse?" - in a way that legally compels the
interested and affected parties to face the ultimate issues directly and be held
accountable for their action or inaction.

Part of the reason litigation can't address the real issues is that many of the
affected, and therefore necessary parties, are not represented as parties in the
actual case. The state of Maryland is not a litigant in the case. The other
hospitals in the region that would be directly affected are not in the case.
They must be a part of a comprehensive solution or there will not be one.

What dispute resolution technique offers the best hope of reaching a
comprehensive solution which would prevent what Sharon Baskerville, executive
director of the D.C Primary Care Association, describes as an impending "perfect
storm"?

This storm would carry with it strong economic winds that could carry the
thousands of patients diverted to the remaining regional hospitals. These
hospitals would quickly be overloaded and potentially paralyzed.

These other regional hospitals have a strong economic and professional interest
in preventing the closing of either, let alone both, of these hospitals. They
therefore need to be involved directly in the prevention of this scenario. The
specter of this set of events should be more than sufficient to motivate all of
the region's other hospitals to enthusiastically participate in the crisis
prevention effort that needs to be made.

The process best suited to produce a comprehensive and long-term resolution is
mediation and it should be convened immediately with all of the stakeholders in
this regional community in the room.

As Robert C. Fiskis and Peter S. Adler point out in an article in the 2007
edition of AC Resolutions, entitled "Leading From Behind," "If conflict is the
crucible of leadership, negotiations are the mortar and the pestle. Responsible
professional and political officials must lead the people and organizations they
represent through the grinding and stirring that makes something useful out of
sometimes mundane ingredients. The job of the Mediator is to lead the process of
bringing out everyone else's best leadership. "

Everyone else's best leadership has yet to emerge in this high-stakes political,
personal, policy and economic dispute. It's time to "bring it on!"

(Steven I. Platt, a retired associate judge on the Prince George's County
Circuit Court, writes a regular column for The Daily Record. He can be reached
at info@apursuitofjustice.com)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                          Sunday Tasmanian (Australia)

                              June 20, 2004 Sunday

Public health system needs major surgery

BYLINE: Simon Bevilacqua

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1071 words


Simon Bevilacqua finds the patient in serious condition

TASMANIA'S public health system has deteriorated over 10 years needs major
surgery, some of the state's leading medics say.

They say the shambles is not the fault of one political party or one bureaucrat.

It was the result of years, if not decades, of pandering to parochial politics
and a lack of political will to face a huge and complicated problem.

Health now accounts for about a third of the state budget -- more than $1
billion.

But the public system is failing to deliver standards expected of a modern
system.

High-profile Tasmanian medico Bryan Walpole said there were problems across the
board.

"It's going to need major attention," Dr Walpole said.

Hadyn Walters, head of medicine and associate dean for research at the
University of Tasmania's Faculty of Health Sciences and clinical chief of
medicine at the Royal Hobart Hospital, said the problem would need unprecedented
co-operation.

"This is going to need across-the-board support, all the political parties, and
a major public debate," Dr Walters said.

"Tasmanians are going to have to face the fact that if they want a decent public
health system, there are going to have to be major changes.

"Otherwise there'll be nothing left of the public health system. There'll be a
system for the rich and a disgrace for everyone else in the community."

Health and Human Services Minister David Llewellyn has called for a review of
the public health system by an expert advisory committee led by Monash
University professor Jeff Richardson.

The Richardson report has been completed and is expected to be released soon by
the State Government.

Submissions to the report have suggested major overhauls of the system.

A key debate to surface is the need for a restructure of the state's public
hospitals.

But opinions vary about how the changes should occur.

Some say the only cost-effective way to operate in Tasmania is to have one major
hospital with tertiary services based in Hobart.

Two secondary hospitals with adequate local facilities would be needed in the
North, most likely the Launceston General Hospital and a new hospital to be
built in Ulverstone.

"Tasmania, as a decentralised state, will always have this dilemma, as in all
other states, the capital dominates the provinces, and if Tasmanians are to have
national-class services, they will need to travel," Dr Walpole said in his
submission to the Richardson report.DR Walpole says the Tasmanian medical
workforce is "problematic and needs urgent attention".

The Mersey Community Hospital was a case in point.

"Having practised there recently, I saw serious errors of judgment, lack of
supervision, bizarre decisions being made, more through lack of support than
knowledge," Dr Walpole said.

If the RHH assumes a larger role, there would need to be a major upgrade of
paramedic services and air and road ambulance services.

But the devil is in the detail.

The RHH has no helipad landing strip and paramedics are forced to land on the
nearby Domain and ferry patients by ambulance to the hospital.

Choppers have been forced to land on a roundabout in the middle of the Bass
Highway to get to the Mersey Community Hospital.

A helipad was considered for the RHH in the 1990s but the cost of fire-proofing
the roof was prohibitive.

The Tasmanian branch of the Australian College of Ambulance Professionals says
the RHH needs a helipad.

It says ambulance practice in Tasmania is "pedestrian", has fallen behind
international best practice and needs upgrading.

It says the Tasmanian Government must develop an Emergency Medical System and
increase the scope of practice for Tasmanian paramedics so patients get better
treatment before they reach hospital.IT says ambulance response times must be
improved so 90 per cent of emergency cases are responded to within eight
minutes.

"Trauma patients have the greatest chance for good recovery if they are able to
be in surgery within one hour of the incident," its submission to the Richardson
review says.

It also says there should be a pre-hospital research unit attached to the
Tasmanian Ambulance Service or linked to the university.

Another idea raised is to restructure public hospitals by maintaining three
major hospitals -- each specialising in certain areas.

It would see patients transferred between the hospitals, including some Hobart
patients being taken to the North-West Coast or Launceston.

Many submissions to the Richardson report call for a new hospital on the
North-West Coast to be based at Ulverstone.

But this is nothing new.

One senior medic, who did not want to be named, said he had been working at
Wynyard in 1959 when most of the experts agreed that Ulverstone was ideal for a
North-West hospital.

"Political pandering won out and we finished with the situation it is now," he
said.

"Decisions have been made on purely parochial and political grounds."

The Australasian Society for Emergency Medicine says there should only be one
specialist emergency department in the North-West.

Its submission says the emergency department should be located in the regional
base hospital with 24-hour availability of core specialty services and other
services including general surgery, orthopedics, urology, opthalmology, general
medicine, pediatrics, psychiatry, obstetrics, gynaecology, anaesthetics, CCU/ICU
and ENT/maxillofacial.

"It is also essential there be a 24-hour pathology and medical imaging
services," the society says.

Senior NWRH emergency department medical staff say there is general agreement
about the need for one specialist hospital in the North-West but there is huge
debate about where it should be sited.

"For many years there has been an inefficient and expensive duplication and a
lack of co-ordination of hospital services on the North-West Coast," the NWRH
staff said in their submission. "We know of no other situation in rural
Australia where there are two public hospitals in such close proximity competing
to provide a range of specialist services.

"The ongoing difficulties of recruiting and retaining health professionals in
small institutions with low case loads, onerous on-call rosters and lack of peer
support are well known."

The NWRH emergency staff said the problems were resulting in "care well below
the accepted clinical standards of today".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: STS

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              353 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

SHC asks, health secretary, police to remove wall chalking from hospital

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 732

LENGTH: 306  words


The Sindh High Court on Wednesday directed the health secretary and area police
to ensure removal of all wallchalking, banners and posters of different
political parties from the premises of National Institute of Child Health.

A division bench of SHC directed the SHO of police station concerned to take
action in accordance with law when any complaint is registered by the
administration of the hospital. While disposing off the petition, the court
asked them to submit compliance reports by January 20.

These directions came on a petition filed by Javed Iqbal Burki who had gone to
the court, stating the NICH, a 500bed public hospital, was defaced by the
wallchalking, banners and posters of different political parties.

The petitioner said that some NICH paramedic staff, most of them members of the
medical wings of various political parties, damaged the appearance of its
building by fixing huge banners, posters and flags of their respective parties
in different wards and at the entrances and exits of the hospital.

Moreover, they have carried out wallchalking in wards, rooms and the boundary
wall of the NICH. He said that the paramedics were seen indulging in direct
interaction with patients to promote their respective parties.

He said that the hospital management tried numerous times to take steps to
remove the banners, flags and graffiti but the paramedics held unlawful
gatherings on the NICH premises to intimidate, insult, annoy the functionaries
and threatened them with violence in case any action was taken against them.

The petitioner requested the court to restrain the paramedic staff and political
activists from interfering, harassing and hindering the administration and
functioning of the NICH. He also prayed to the court to direct the respondents
to take action against the NICH staff involved in such activities.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

SHC asks, health secy, police to remove wall chalking from hospital

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 14

LENGTH: 306  words


The Sindh High Court on Wednesday directed the health secretary and area police
to ensure removal of all wallchalking, banners and posters of different
political parties from the premises of National Institute of Child Health.

A division bench of SHC directed the SHO of police station concerned to take
action in accordance with law when any complaint is registered by the
administration of the hospital. While disposing off the petition, the court
asked them to submit compliance reports by January 20.

These directions came on a petition filed by Javed Iqbal Burki who had gone to
the court, stating the NICH, a 500bed public hospital, was defaced by the
wallchalking, banners and posters of different political parties.

The petitioner said that some NICH paramedic staff, most of them members of the
medical wings of various political parties, damaged the appearance of its
building by fixing huge banners, posters and flags of their respective parties
in different wards and at the entrances and exits of the hospital.

Moreover, they have carried out wallchalking in wards, rooms and the boundary
wall of the NICH. He said that the paramedics were seen indulging in direct
interaction with patients to promote their respective parties.

He said that the hospital management tried numerous times to take steps to
remove the banners, flags and graffiti but the paramedics held unlawful
gatherings on the NICH premises to intimidate, insult, annoy the functionaries
and threatened them with violence in case any action was taken against them.

The petitioner requested the court to restrain the paramedic staff and political
activists from interfering, harassing and hindering the administration and
functioning of the NICH. He also prayed to the court to direct the respondents
to take action against the NICH staff involved in such activities.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           October 01, 2015 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Union calls on MEC to intervene at Bara

BYLINE:  VUYO MKIZE vuyo.mkhize@inl.co.za

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 419 words


THE NATIONAL Education, Health and Allied Workers Union has described the
management at Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital as irresponsible and
incompetent.

The union marched to the hospital yesterday to hand over a memorandum addressed
to Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu and the head of department, in which it detailed
its grievances.

Nehawu complained that management had disregarded due process when hiring 147
workers recently.

The union also alleged that the EFF had "captured" the hospital and infused it
with "corrupt tendencies".

"We cannot allow Bara to become a political playground where political parties
will come and demand employment (while) disregarding employment processes," the
memorandum stated.

"If our employer succumbs to pressure from a political party, it is dangerous.
This is a clear indication that we lack management with vision."

The union alleged that when management employed the workers, it didn't inform
organised labour about the deviation from the recruitment process.

Nehawu also accused |management of misleading the employment equity committee on
the number of posts available. "The process was so flawed that no interviews
were conducted (and) no screening was done. Contract employees, who have been
cleaning the hospital for years, were overlooked."

The union said there was |a backlog in translations and payments of nurses and
|auxiliary nurses who were upgraded to staff nurses dating from 2012.

"In February 2015, the hospital board sponsored a relationship-building
exercise. Management and shop stewards went to Parys (in the Free State) in an
effort to improve relationships.

"This was an important exercise, which was led by labour relations. Once more,
important resolutions were adopted. (Until) today, not a single resolution was
implemented."

The union blamed that on management's unavailability each time a consultative
forum was due to meet.

Nehawu made several demands, among them the removal of the 147 employed workers,
proper engagement with unions as well as the immediate removal of the chief
executive and human resource director and all managers allegedly involved in the
corruption.

It also called for a forensic commission of inquiry to investigate the matter.

The Health Department's spokesman, Steve Mabona, said the department would
peruse the memorandum and attend to the demands.

"It must be noted that we have been in constant liaison with labour and we will
continue to do so, to address all concerns," Mabona said.

The EFF couldn't be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday

Editorial: Measure R is right for Marin General

BYLINE: Marin Independent Journal

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 579 words


In 2013, voters in the Marin Healthcare District passed a bond measure to pay
for a capital plan to bring Marin General Hospital up to modern-day standards.
Voters approved a new tax to finance a $394 million bond measure that will
modernize the hospital, including building new buildings, renovating existing
structures and, most importantly, making seismic-safety improvements.

The vote was a significant investment, but it was also a public vote of
confidence in Marin General Hospital's rise from years of being mired in
political controversy. The hospital's impressive transition to greater public
control helped build that community support.

On the Nov. 4 ballot, voters will be asked to complete that effort, approving a
new lease that would turn the day-to-day management of the hospital to a board
whose members would be appointed by the elected healthcare district board
members.

Sutter Health, which ran Marin General for many years, had a similar local
board, but the medical care giant handpicked its membership.

The old lease left the elected healthcare board with little power over the
hospital   an arrangement that fueled a lengthy and bitter battle played out at
board meetings, in courtrooms and in acrimonious political campaigns.

When Sutter agreed to end its lease, the healthcare district had to rebuild a
management structure, one that would help instill public confidence in Marin
General. The hospital's well-respected corps of physicians insisted that a
"firewall" be created to keep the hospital from becoming a political tug-of-war.

The proposed 30-year lease has done just that. It is a major improvement over
the bunker-style approach that Sutter took in dealing with the Marin Healthcare
District board.

Unlike under the Sutter lease, the 11 board members of the new lessee   a local
nonprofit   will be publicly appointed by the elected healthcare district board
which, importantly, will retain control of the hospital's buildings and other
assets.

Board members can be picked for their breadth of expertise rather than their
ability to win a political campaign.

In addition, the board will present quarterly public reports to the district
board. It will also pay the district $500,000 per year in rent and the
hospital's profits will be reinvested in the hospital, not diverted to a
statewide chain of hospitals, as happened under Sutter.

The state law that requires voter endorsement of hospital leases was authored by
critics of Sutter's Marin General lease. Some of those same people have
criticized Measure R, likening it to the controversial Sutter lease.

We don't agree with that criticism.

The Sutter lease left the healthcare board legally neutered, with little say
over the quality and changes in patient care at Marin General Hospital.

That disconnect fueled years of circus-like politics that took a toll on public
confidence in the hospital. Measure R seeks to prevent a return to those days.
It is a practical solution, a hybrid. It is a lease that still gives the
district effective power to address issues facing the hospital.

Measure R is modeled on an interim lease that been in operation since Sutter's
departure.

Voter approval of the 2013 bond measure was a vote of confidence by the
community. Measure R deserves the same support.

Measure R provides a firewall, but still gives the public, through its election
of healthcare board members and built-in public processes, a strong say in
steering the governance of Marin General Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2014 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             March 20, 2012 Tuesday

Nurses' strike gets wide political support

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, March 20 -- The nurses strike at the Lakeshore Hospital here attained a
renewed vigour with various political parties holding marches on Monday in
solidarity with the nurses. The nurses will carry out a march from the Nettoor
Market to the Lakeshore Hospital on Tuesday.

The CPM, CPI, PDP, Solidarity, various trade unions and corporation councillors
will take part in the march which will be taken out under the banner of
Janakeeya Samara Sahaya Samiti.

"We will continue with the strike until the hospital management reinstates all
the trainee nurses", said Ramya Rani of the United Nurses Association, Lakeshore
branch. Meanwhile, the hospital management has made it clear that the trainee
nurses will not be reappointed. The right to appoint or dismiss the trainee
nurses is the sole discretion of the hospital management, Lakeshore Hospital MD
Dr Philip Augustine said. In the agreement which was signed after last month's
strike the reappointment of the trainee nurses was not included, he said. He
also appealed to the nurses to end the strike and join for duty. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan: Official inspects hospital, college in Landikotal

LENGTH: 177  words

DATELINE: LANDIKOTAL


LANDIKOTAL, Sept. 25 -- Following the public complaints, a senior official of
the political administration inspected the hospital and college in Landikotal
subdivision of Khyber Agency on Tuesday.

Political Agent Syed Shahab Ali Shah along with Assistant Political Agent (APA)
Muhammad Tayyab Abdullah paid surprise visits to the Agency Headquarters
Hospital and the Government Degree Collage in Landikotal and inspected various
sections.

He checked all the official record and directed the hospital administration to
ensure 100 percent attendance of all employees. He handed over keys of an
ambulance van to the administration of the Agency Headquarters Hospital in
Landikotal.

On the students' complaint, the political agent constituted a committee to
initiate probe into the misappropriation of Rs8.5 million in the tender for the
collage repair and renovation

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

Hospital caught in election maul

BYLINE:  Kathy Sundstrom

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 372  words

UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL:

Cost: $2.03 billion

Completion: It will open with 450 beds in 2016 and expand to a 738-bed facility
by 2021.

The hospital will be the centrepiece in a network of hospitals which includes
Nambour General Hospital, Caloundra Health Service, Gympie Hospital and Maleny
Soldiers Memorial Hospital.

Source: Queensland Health

BOTH major political parties have promised the Sunshine Coast University
Hospital will be delivered on schedule.

But Labor and the LNP claim this won't happen if the other party comes to power.

The crucial piece of infrastructure the Sunshine Coast needed years ago appeared
to have become a political football with both parties kicking around debate
about its future.

In response to a question if the Government expected any delays caused by the
election, Health Minister Geoff Wilson used it to attack the LNP.

"The caretaker period will not affect the timeframe for tenders for the
hospital, but the outcome of the election will," Mr Wilson said.

"Bids will be received during the caretaker period and Queensland Health can
begin the process of analysing the bids during that period as well. That will
mean a re-elected Bligh Government will be in a position to announce the outcome
of the bid process later in 2012.

"But if the LNP is elected the hospital project will be set back by at least a
year.

"That's because the bidders have been putting together their final bids for the
full $2.03 billion hospital, based on the Labor Government's plans. However, the
LNP has publicly stated it will "~re-scope' the project and rip up to $400
million from its budget.

"At the very least if the LNP is elected, the bidders will have to start the
bidding process all over again under the LNP's plan to re-scope the entire
project.

"That process would delay the project by more than a year. It would also mean
that vital services planned for the hospital would have to be abandoned in order
to reduce the cost."

Deputy Opposition leader Tim Nicholls said the LNP "will deliver the Sunshine
Coast University Hospital without delays and without excuses".

He said the LNP "has long been committed to delivering the Sunshine Coast
University Hospital, while Labor had flip-flopped for years on the important
project".

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 5, 2013 Saturday

CALLS FOR BURNHAM TO BE SACKED OVER COVER-UP OF HOSPITAL CARE DISASTER

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 854 words


FORMER Health Secretary Andy Burnham is facing calls to quit after claims he
tried to block the publication of a devastating report into hospital neglect
before the last election.

Tory MPs demanded Ed Miliband fire Mr Burnham as shadow health secretary after
the Mail published damning emails which show the health watchdog was asked to
stop the release of a report on Basildon and Thurrock hospital in Essex where
patients were left to die.

Britain's most powerful civil servant Cabinet Secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood was
last night examining whether he needs to set up a Whitehall investigation into
whether civil servants breached their code of conduct. Emails released under the
Freedom of Information Act have revealed that the Department of Health stopped
the watchdog Care Quality Commission from releasing the report just hours before
it was due to be published in November 2009.

The report revealed that death rates in A&E were a third above average while
catheters were strewn on the floor and blood was spattered on the walls and
curtains. Mr Burnham was furious' when news of the poor standards of care was
leaked, the emails reveal.

In a second controversy, the commission was due to publish its state of care
report' into hospitals and care homes in February 2010

, three months before the election. Yet an email sent round by a senior CQC boss
following a meeting with one of Mr Burnham's junior ministers instructs them
that, given the political environment', the report should be largely positive'.

In July, in a House of Commons debate on hospital scandals, Mr Burnham rounded
on Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt after he was accused of covering up poor care.
Mr Burnham said at the time: The Secretary of State claims that we were covering
up...it is outrageous for [him] to come to the House and repeat those concerns
without a shred of evidence to back them up'.

Mr Burnham is now accused of misleading MPs about his role in the affair and is
facing calls to make a statement to Parliament next week.

Tory MP Stephen Barclay, who obtained the emails, said: Labour tried to cover up
failing hospitals before the last General Election. Andy Burnham told the House
of Commons in July there was no shred of evidence of political interference with
the health regulator.

But these emails show a clear paper trail of political meddling - leading back
to him.

He owes a big apology to the patients and families who suffered, and he should
resign. No one will ever trust Labour with our hospitals again.' He added that
he had written to Ed Miliband demanding Mr Burnham be sacked.

Former CQC head of media, Roger Davidson, has previously said the watchdog was
told by Labour before the general election that we don't want bad news'.

Baroness Young, the former chairman of the CQC, told the Francis inquiry into
deaths at Mid Staffordshire Hospital Trust, under oath, that the CQC was under
more pressure...when Andy Burnham became minister'.

Professor Sir Brian Jarman, the country's foremost expert on hospital death
rates, has said Labour ran an NHS denial machine', which ignored issues in the
NHS when they were politically inconvenient.

After the publication of the emails yesterday, Tory MP Stephen Metcalfe wrote to
Sir Jeremy Heywood asking him to investigate whether the civil service code was
breached.

He wrote: The evidence presented this morning suggests that Andy Burnham, then
Health Secretary, and his team, attempted to manipulate the release of CQC
reports for political gain.

I am deeply concerned civil servants came under undue political pressure from
the front bench Labour team and those associated with them, who were nervous
about the proximity of the General Election.'

Health Secretary Mr Hunt tweeted: Shocking revelations on Andy Burnham's
attempts to cover-up failing hospitals.'

He added: What it looks like...is that the last government wanted the NHS to be
a good news factory, really, in the run-up to the last election - to the extent
that they were prepared to lean on the regulator not to publish a report about
poor care at one hospital, and I think that's wrong.

That's why I announced this week that we will make the CQC, the regulator,
completely independent in the way the Bank of England is.'

Mr Burnham demanded an apology from the Tories and threatened to sue Mr Hunt. He
claimed he was only furious about the release of the information on the hospital
because the leak of the report into Basildon hospital broke Department of Health
rules'.

In a letter to Mr Hunt he said: The unauthorised briefing by a CQC press
officer, which broke the CQC/DH rules, was not agreed with the senior leadership
of the CQC.

I ordered a press release, in accordance with proper process, be issued later
that day. It is impossible to see how you can claim this mounted to a cover-up.'

He asked for evidence to substantiate your assertion. If you fail to provide
such evidence, I will require a full retraction and public apology. If that is
not forthcoming I will consider further action.'

Labour said it had asked Mr Hunt to substantiate his comments or withdraw them'.

Comment - Page 16

Yesterday's Daily Mail

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Plea against political activities, graffiti at NICH

SECTION: Vol. LXVII No. 318

LENGTH: 470  words


The Sindh High Court on Wednesday directed the interior minister, Sindh chief
secretary and officials to file their respective comments in a petition seeking
removal of banners and posters of different political parties from the National
Institute of Child Health.

The petition was filed by Javed Iqbal Burki who cited the interior minister,
chief secretary, home secretary, health secretary, provincial police and NICH
executive director as respondents.

A twojudge bench comprising Justices Muhammed Ali Mazhar and Naimatullah
Phulphoto issued notices to the respondents and put off the hearing to Dec 3.

The petitioner's counsel, Advocate Muhammad Vawda told the judges that the NICH,
a 500bed public hospital, was the first children's hospital in the country and
it provided tertiary care services for almost all paediatric diseases.

He said that the hospital was equipped with the latest diagnostic equipment.
Reportedly, 700 to 800 patients visit different outpatient departments for
treatment on a daily basis and 18,000 children receive treatment every month at
the NICH.

The counsel said that some NICH paramedic staff, most of them members of the
medical wings of various political parties, defaced the its building by fixing
huge banners, posters and flags of their respective parties in different wards
and at the entrances and exits of the hospital.

In addition wallchalking was also visible in wards, rooms and the boundary wall
of the NICH.

He said that these activities were going on without an approval from the NICH
management and administration.

Advocate Vawda said that the paramedics were seen indulging in direct
interaction with patients to promote their respective parties.

He said they were also seen interfering with the administration, interalia, and
meddling in the procedures and functions of the blood bank, operating
theatre/surgery rooms and emergency ward without any approval from the hospital
management or doctors. He said that the paramedics were also involved in
extorting funds from patients, doctors and functionaries of the NICH.

The counsel said that the hospital management tried numerous times to take steps
to remove the banners, flags and graffiti but the paramedics held unlawful
assemblies on the NICH premises to intimidate, insult, annoy the functionaries
and threatened them with violence in case any action was taken against them.

The petitioner prayed to the court to permanently restrain the paramedic staff
and political activists from interfering, harassing and hindering the
administration and functioning of the NICH.

He also prayed to the court to direct the respondents to take action against the
NICH staff involved in such activities.

The petitioner sought court directive to the respondents for the remove all
party flags, posters, banners and graffiti from the building.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2014 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             July 9, 2014 Wednesday

Shortage of medicines at Burns Center hits patients hard

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 548

LENGTH: 283  words


Friends of Burns Center, a non-governmental organization (NGO), had stopped the
supply of medicines to Burns Center Karachi over political activities of medical
wings of political parties and frequent protest demonstrations of paramedics
against the administration. Reliable sources of Burns Center Karachi said
Friends of Burns Center had stopped supply of medicines to patients with burns
injuries due to increasing political activities of medical wing of political
parties in the premises of healthcare.

The administration of NGO asked Civil Hospital Karachi administration to take
the control of Burns Center again. Sources said Friends of Burns Center had
limited their public welfare activities in healthcare due to political
activities and frequently held protest demonstrations against the
administration. All the administrative affairs of Burns Center are almost in
state of halt. The administration has also stopped the provision of medicines to
poor patients brought throughout the Sindh province and Balochistan province for
treatment. The shortage of medicines partially affected the routine operational
work like dressing of patients in healthcare.

They said there were of capacity 70 beds in hospital for burns patients.
However, sources said MS Civil Hospital Saeed Qureshi has sought one week time
to resolve the matter with Friends of Burns Center administration in this
regard. In-charge CHK Burns Center Dr Ehmer-Al-Ibran when contacted said Civil
Hospital administration has started provision of medicines to Burns Center and
there was no shortage of medicines in healthcare now. He admitted that Friends
of Burns Center had limited their public welfare activities over some issues.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            October 14, 2012 Sunday

Editorial: IJ recommends Simmonds, Sparkman for Marin Healthcare District board

BYLINE: Marin Independent Journal Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 474 words


CAMPAIGNS for seats on the Marin Healthcare District board used to provide the
stage for acrimonious political fights.

Today, with two incumbents seeking re-election and a single challenger doing
little to campaign for votes, what once was a political battlefield appears far
different.

Dr. Harris "Hank" Simmonds, a retired obstetrician, is seeking a second term.
His primary focus, he says, is to shape the proposed expansion, modernization
and seismic-safety repairs for Marin General Hospital. He says the health care
district directors are heading the decision-making process on what likely will
require voter-approval of a bond measure to become reality.

Simmonds' election to the board in 2008 was a political milestone for the
district, signaling its departure from the political antagonism of the fight
over control of MGH to the successful re-establishment of public management.

He has helped rebuild public trust in Marin General and the board, a trust that
had come under attack by critics of Sutter Health's long-term contract to run
the hospital.

That trust helped keep MGH's physicians and nurses from leaving the hospital
when the new public management took over. A political "firewall" has been
created, turning day-to-day management of the hospital over to a separate board
of health-care experts. Simmonds says the district board still maintains an
oversight role, including being the employer of the hospital's top management.

Simmonds' commitment to the quality of care at Marin General, today and in the
future, is crystal clear. He has earned another term on the board.

He should be joined by Ann Sparkman, a lawyer at the University of California at
San Francisco who last year was appointed to the board to fill a vacancy.
Sparkman's experience as a nurse and a hospital lawyer provides the board with
expertise that could prove valuable as the district moves forward with the
building plans and deals with employment contracts.

Their challenger is San Rafael lawyer Joe Salama, who ran unsuccessfully for the
board in 2010.

He's raising many of the same issues he did in that race, questioning whether
the "firewall" best serves the public. He fears the district board and the
public are being kept in the dark about important hospital decisions and
possible conflicts of interest.

The most constructive contribution of his candidacy is its reminder to the
district's leadership that it needs to keep its decision-making process as open
as possible if it wants to win voter approval for a bond measure.

Simmonds is right   this election isn't about re-fighting old battles, but about
winning public trust and support for keeping Marin General a top-quality
hospital and modernizing its facilities, buildings and campus.

The IJ recommends Dr. Hank Simmonds and Ann Sparkman for the Marin Healthcare
District board on the Nov. 6 ballot.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 24, 1999, Saturday

MAVERICKS FACE INQUIRY OVER HOSPITAL VOTE

BYLINE: Jon Hunt Medical Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 627 words


A "maverick" group of political activists who have jeopardised plans for a
pounds 200 million hospital for Birmingham face an investigation after opposing
the authority that appointed them.

Birmingham City Council nominees to the South Birmingham Community Health
Council were almost entirely responsible for a controversial vote which meant it
officially opposed the hospital plans, inquiries by The Post have revealed.

Yet 24 hours earlier, city councillors on a key policy committee voted
unanimously in favour of the hospital project in a rare cross-party show of
support.

Last night, senior opposition councillor and health campaigner Coun Les Lawrence
(Con Northfield) called for an all-party inquiry into the behaviour of the
council nominees whom he branded a "maverick group".

Hospital managers also disclosed CHC members had declined invitations for a tour
of the two hospitals at the centre of the row, the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and
Selly Oak Hospital, to see for themselves their state of decay.

The CHC voted by 14 votes to six to adopt a controversial report opposing the
new hospital project. Eleven of the 14 were city council nominees, including the
CHC chairman Mrs Ursula Pearce.

The council nominates about half the CHC's members, mainly on recommendations
submitted by political parties. The remainder are elected by voluntary
organisations or appointed by the Department of Health.

Analysis of the voting figures shows a majority of voluntary and Department of
Health representatives voted for the new hospital - three from each group. But
not a single city council nominee supported it.

Coun Lawrence said: "They are city council representatives and should take due
notice of what it is doing or saying and should be willing to discuss its views
with it. The three parties on the city council should collectively look very
closely at this."

Mr Steve McCabe, the Labour MP for Hall Green, has tabled a series of
Parliamentary questions to Health Secretary Mr Frank Dobson asking whether he
has the power to order a judicial review into the CHC's actions.

He said it was "outrageous" a handful of people could jeopardise the hospital
project.

Another local MP, Mrs Gisela Stuart (Lab Edgbaston), said: "I suspect there is
ideology behind what has happened. They should look more closely at the needs of
Birmingham people.

"The time has come for the CHC to look at itself and see how representative it
is of the community's views."

The CHC report accused hospital managers of exaggerating the state of decay of
the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Selly Oak Hospital and claims the project would
mean the loss of hundreds of medical and nursing jobs.

The CHC opposition means the project will automatically be referred to Mr Dobson
and could face lengthy delays while Department of Health civil servants analyse
it, especially if a new Health Secretary is appointed in next week's Government
reshuffle.

A spokeswoman for University Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust, which runs the
hospitals, said: "The CHC has not been and had a look at the situation, despite
invitations.

"City councillors, MPs and MEPs are among the many people who have been to see
for themselves but the CHC has not."

But Mrs Pearce claimed the CHC's views were based on a public consultation it
held 18 months ago and accused its critics of intimidation.

She said the claim that the repair problems were exaggerated was based on a
study of the trust's figures.

She said: "They have included backlog maintenance for some quite new buildings
and even for a porter's lodge. We are there to represent the interests of the
patients, not of anybody else and include representatives of all political
parties."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Under fire: Ursula Pearce. Furious: Steve McCabe. Inquiry call:; Les
Lawrence.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              365 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan: PMA condemns hooligansim at CHK Gynaecology Ward

LENGTH: 310  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, March 12 -- The Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) has strongly
condemned hooliganism at the gynaecology ward of Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK)
where a male attendant carrying a weapon entered the labour room of the CHK a
couple of days ago and threatened the lady doctors and women in the labour room.

The incident was reported to the high-ups but nothing concrete has so far
emerged for provision of security to doctors.

"Patients in the gynecology ward, most of them hailing from low-income
localities, are exposed because of hooliganism,' Dr. Samrina Hashmi, an eminent
gynaecologist and a PMA leader told media.

"PMA has always demanded security of doctors during performance of their duties,
particularly in the public sector hospitals. Doctors need peace of mind and a
conducive environment for better discharge of duties for providing solace to
suffering humanity," a strongly-worded statement issued by PMA on Wednesday
said.

"But, it appears that now and then the hospital administration has failed to
bring about discipline in maintenance of working conditions that obviously
results in several incidents when doctors are beaten and maltreated either by
attendants of the patients or the political workers," the statement further
said.

PMA leader Dr. Idrees Adhi visited the gynaecology ward of CHK on Wednesday and
assured concerned doctors of PMA's full support. The PMA has urged the
government. to look into this grievous matter and order the concerned hospital
administrators to take measures for protection of duty doctors of public sector
hospital and remove the political influence and interference of political
parties from these hospitals Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 2, 2012 Sunday

NCP creates ruckus at Daga hospital after death of a newborn

BYLINE: Payal Gwalani

SECTION: NAGPUR

LENGTH: 394 words


NAGPUR: A ruckus ensued after the death of a newborn baby at the government-run
Daga Memorial Hospital for Women and Children on Saturday afternoon. Parents of
the child blamed the doctors for their child's death. Members of the Nationalist
Congress Party (NCP) flocked to the hospital and spoke of the many
insufficiencies at the hospital. They demanded a probe into the matter.

The body of the baby was sent for post-mortem and an enquiry committee has been
set up to look into the matter. Even though the political workers said that the
number of children dying at the hospital is huge, sources from the hospital said
that it was lower than that at many other hospitals.

"Today, itself there have been two deaths at the hospital. We have been
receiving regular complaints about many such deaths taking place here. On
Tuesday, a patient even complained that one of the doctors manhandled her. There
are too many insufficiencies at the hospital starting with low stock of
medicines, doctors not being available and important procedures being attended
to by the nurses and midwives," said city NCP chief Ajay Patil. He said that his
party has demanded the suspension of the doctor who has been found to be
violating norms according to the report of the enquiry committee.

Hospital superintendent Dr Vaishali Khedikar said that a committee has been
formed and will be coming up with a report by December 10.

A source from the hospital refuted all charges levelled by the political party.
"We have more than 1,200 deliveries every month. Moreover, most of the cases we
get are very complicated. The fact that we can save so many babies is an
achievement which is never appreciated but when such deaths that only happen
when things are beyond our control, the matter is blown out of proportion and we
end up being object of contempt for the people. Even a nominal one per cent
death rate, which is a natural proportion of newborn deaths, goes up to 120
deaths in a month," said the source.

The showdown by the political outfit has also left a bitter taste among many of
the staffers of the hospital. "Such pressure tactics scare us to be a part of a
government organization. Many of our colleagues are finding it difficult to cope
with it and are thinking of making a shift to the private sector," said one of
the staffers of the hospital.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                           All-round Country Edition

Abbott admits plan has unhealthy flaw - ELECTION 2007

BYLINE: Matthew Franklin, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 540  words


POLICY BATTLEGROUND ELECTION 07 - HEALTH

TONY Abbott has admitted to a flaw in his plan to force states to establish
boards to operate public hospitals, conceding he will be powerless to prevent
the committees being stacked with political appointees.

But the Health Minister says he still believes community-based boards will be
better at running public hospitals than state government bureaucracies.

On Monday, Mr Abbott said that if re-elected, the Howard Government would
require states to return to a decades-old system under which all public
hospitals are administered by a board comprised of local appointees.

State governments rejected the move, with Queensland Health Minister Stephen
Robertson saying that before Labor abolished the board system in 1992, previous
National Party state governments had stacked the boards with political
appointees who had created $313 million in debts for taxpayers.

Asked yesterday whether his proposal included a mechanism for eliminating the
politicisation of boards, Mr Abbott said: ''We can't stop state Labor
governments stacking boards.

''The requirement that a third of the board must be hospital clinicians or
staff, and that other members should have expertise in governance, finance or
health service delivery, will help.''

He said Mr Robertson was ''really saying you can't trust state Labor governments
to appoint good people'' to boards.

Mr Abbott said he believed the hospital board system would work. ''It will
certainly be a vast improvement on the current situation,'' he said. ''It is
interesting that the Labor states don't think they can keep politics out of
it.''

Mr Robertson said he would not appoint political hacks if forced to return to a
board system. But he said Queensland had abolished boards because they were
inefficient and had been shown to be ripe for political exploitation.

''For me, the major flaw is that Tony Abbott cannot provide any advice or expert
opinion that shows that boards deliver better outcomes,'' Mr Robertson said.
''Where is his proof?''

He said boards still existed in Victoria and South Australia but that public
hospitals in those states were as cash-strapped as other hospitals across the
country. ''How will a hospital board employ one extra doctor?'' he said.

The Rural Doctors Association said debate about community management of public
hospitals was ''an unfortunate distraction'' from the real problem -- workforce
shortages. The debate raged as both sides of politics continued to press the
health issue, which has dominated recent days of pre-election-campaign
posturing.

John Howard cited problems at Sydney's Royal North Shore Hospital, where a
pregnant woman awaiting treatment last week suffered a miscarriage in a public
toilet, as reason for voters to be wary of a Labor government.

''This mismanagement of public hospitals in NSW is a disgrace and the level of
the disgrace becomes more apparent every day,'' the Prime Minister told Sydney
radio 2GB. ''Do they (voters) really want duplicated at a federal level the
appalling mismanagement that's occurring at a state level in areas such as
public hospitals and public transport?''

Later yesterday, Labor leader Kevin Rudd visited the Gladstone Hospital in
central Queensland.

Opinion -- Page 14

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 4, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Loudoun Letters to the Editor

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T02

LENGTH: 534 words


I sincerely hope the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors doesn't let "politics
as usual" interfere with common sense when voting on the new Broadlands Regional
Medical Center.

Folks, we need this hospital in its proposed location and for all the right
reasons, which have been hashed out over and over in this paper and elsewhere.
And we're going to need it sooner than anyone will ever realize.

In my humble opinion, Scott K. York (I), chairman of the Board of Supervisors,
unfortunately took a somewhat strident approach in explaining why he is in favor
of the proposed HCA Corp. hospital in Broadlands ["Misled on Health Care Plan,"
Letters, Loudoun Extra, June 27].

In part, he said: "Like it or not, Loudoun is the nation's fastest-growing
county. We have the lowest number of hospital beds per capita in Northern
Virginia. More than half our residents leave our county for health care
services."

Although what he said is true, he could have made a greater impact without the
comment, "Like it or not." The same holds true for his other comment that "this
scheme reeks of it [politics]" and his mention of "a Board of Supervisors that
at its first meeting, with no public notice, disbanded the county's Health Care
Commission." Comments like these serve only to challenge the members of the
board who represent other political parties, who in turn feel obliged to strike
back as they seem to do in all matters political.

The need for this hospital is not and should not be a political issue to any
member of the Board of Supervisors. It is a matter that requires meeting the
needs of Loudoun's citizenry. I sincerely hope the entire board puts this kind
of an attitude behind it and looks at the necessity and the overwhelming growth
in our area that this hospital will hopefully serve.

I also continue to sound the alarm, thus far unheeded, of any overwhelming
accidents or natural disasters, including possible terrorist attacks at Dulles
International Airport, the Federal Aviation Administration facility or any of
the other numerous "choice" targets for terrorism in Loudoun County. I again
want to remind all concerned that the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, did not test
the capacity of New York City's hospitals since, unfortunately, the majority of
the victims did not survive to require medical treatment.

As if we need any more proof about our county's growth, one only has to look at
the growth map  in this very same issue of the Loudoun Extra ["What's Going
Where in Loudoun County"]. It details the numerous housing projects and rezoning
requests that are but the tip of the iceberg of future growth.

All this without including the many schools, offices and warehouses and the
needed expansion of the fire and rescue training center facilities that will
attract even more residents requiring even more housing.

I do sincerely thank York for his needed support of the HCA hospital. My only
concern and intent here is to ask him and all members of our elected board to
put aside any political bickering and/or rhetoric on an issue of such importance
and vote responsibly to approve this over-debated, over-challenged but much
needed hospital in Broadlands.

Gerald F. Merna

Potomac Falls

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              369 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

BRIEF: Highlands wins Circle of Friends award

BYLINE: The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 191 words


June 04--LEXINGTON -- The Kentucky Hospitals' Circle of Friends Political Action
Committee (PAC) presented its awards during the annual Kentucky Hospital
Association conference in May. Highlands Health System won this year's Clarence
C. Traum Award, which recognizes the facility and staff that most exceeds their
goal for the year.

Highlands' President and CEO, Bud Warman, accepted the award on behalf of the
health system, which raised more funds than any other Kentucky hospital for the
2014 fundraising year.

The Circle of Friends is a political action committee of the Kentucky Hospital
Association. The organization is instrumental in helping to shape legislation
and other governmental policies regarding health care in the state of Kentucky.
The committee achieves its results through one-on-one meetings with elected
officials, helping to educate them on the struggles of Kentucky hospitals due to
mounting numbers of uninsured patients and inadequate reimbursement.

___ (c)2015 The Floyd County Times (Prestonsburg, Ky.) Visit The Floyd County
Times (Prestonsburg, Ky.) at www.floydcountytimes.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150604-QO-BRF-Highlands-wins-Circle-of-Friends-award-0604-20150604

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QO


            Copyright 2015 The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.


                              370 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Rs 589.5m to hospitals with politicians' stake

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, July 14 -- Several government hospitals, including major ones like
Bir Hospital and Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH), have been
struggling to meet their daily costs and pay salaries to staff, due to budget
crunch.

However, hospitals named after the deceased leaders of major political parties
like Nepali Congress and CPN-UML or in which influential leaders of those
parties have invested have received huge grants from the Ministry of Health and
Population (MoHP).

According to its own report, MoHP has provided Rs 589.5 million in grants to 37
hospitals in the ongoing fiscal year, and the leaders of the ruling Nepali
Congress and CPN-UML have stakes in a majority of these.

Officials at MoHP said that the amount provided to those hospitals is almost
twice the annual grant for Bir Hospital. Bir provides treatment to over 350,000
patients every year, including 75 percent free treatment to indigent patients.

Authorities at Bir said that it has to struggle to pay the salaries of its staff
and has been running into debt. "MoHP has provided us an additional grant to pay
staff salaries but we are still in debt," Dr Swyam Prakash Pandit, director at
Bir, said adding that the hospital owes over Rs 50 million to contractors
supplying medicines and accessories.

However, MoHP does not even bother to inquire about the number of patients in
hospitals in which the political leaders have invested. The ministry also does
not take any notice how many patients are benefiting from its largess. Source at
MoHP said investors and employees at those hospitals even draw bonuses from
these funds.

A list provided by the ministry shows that hospitals in which leaders of the
Nepali Congress and CPN-UML have shares took Rs 100 million in grants this year.

According to MoHP, Mahendra Narayan Nidhi Hospital received Rs 50 million in
grant from MoHP. Bimalendra Nidhi, son of the late NC leader Mahendra Narayan
Nidhi, is minister for physical infrastructure and transport management.
Likewise, the Susma Koirala Memorial Trust received Rs 10 million in MoHP grant.
GP Koirala Center for Respiratory Diseases took Rs 20 million, and the BP
Memorial Hospital, Rs 10 million.

Similarly, Puspalal Hospital run by Janswastya Sarokar Trust received Rs 40
million. BP Eye Foundation received Rs 10 million, Manamohan Community Hospital
Rs 50 million, National Kidney Center Rs 50 million and the Sahid Memorial
Hospital, Jhapa received Rs 10 million. Sahid Memorial Hospital, Kathmandu took
Rs 50 million.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bilingual service in hospitals not optional, Couillard says; 'No compromise' on
care in French

BYLINE: KEVIN DOUGHERTY, The Gazette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 313  words

DATELINE: QUEBEC


Health Minister Philippe Couillard wants Quebec's hospitals to offer treatment
to patients in their own language - French or English.

The minister was asked to comment on the 15 complaints the Office québécois de
la langue française received last year from patients who said they did not
receive health care in French.

"The number of complaints is relatively low," Couillard said. "It doesn't mean
that it's not a problem."

He said all Quebec hospitals should provide service in French.

"The first principle we always stress is that in my view, in my mind, in the
government's mind, there is no such thing as an anglophone hospital and a
francophone hospital," he said.

"They are all Quebec hospitals serving Quebecers and Quebecers work and practise
medicine in these hospitals and the law says that all Quebec citizens have a
right to be treated and served in French.

"There will be no compromise in this matter."

But Quebec also has Bill 142, to ensure anglophones, even in regions where there
are few English speakers, have access to service in their language.

"I think it is a tremendous success," Couillard said of Bill 142.

"And if you compare what we are doing for our anglophone minority outside
Montreal, I think our standing is quite good compared to what is done for the
francophone minorities outside Quebec.

"I think we have nothing to be ashamed of for the way services are given for our
anglophone fellow Quebecers," the minister said.

"We want these Quebecers to be treated fairly."

Action démocratique du Québec leader Mario Dumont, commenting on the 15
complaints about shortfalls in health care in French, said the situation is not
new. "The law is there and it is there to be applied," Dumont said.

kdougherty@thegazette.canwest.com

- - -

montrealgazette.com

Soundoff Are Quebecers making too much of the language issue? Does the debate
still reflect reality? Join the debate

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: TYREL FEATHERSTONE THE GAZETTE; "In my mind, in the government's
mind, there is no such thing as an anglophone hospital and a francophone
hospital," Health Minister Philippe Couillard said yesterday, adding that
medical care should be provided to patients in the language of their choice. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 27, 2005, Tuesday

HOSPITAL NEEDS £11.5M TO STAY LEGAL

BYLINE: BY EMMA BRADY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 404 words


A cash-strapped Midland hospital trust needs to spend more than £11.5 million to
ensure its buildings meet statutory health and safety standards.

Shrewsbury and Telford Hospitals NHS Trust was ranked fourth out of the 500
trusts across Britain with the highest spending requirements, in a construction
industry report.

It ended the last financial year with an unexpected £10.1 million deficit, which
has taken its current debt to £19 million.

The report, published by trade body the Construction Products Association (CPA),
reveals the total cost for the backlog of repairs to the NHS estate is £2.6
billion - with more than £500 million to be spent on basic health, safety and
fire measures alone.

Shrewsbury and Telford Hospitals NHS Trust needs to invest £11,548,000 to meet
statutory fire safety, according to official figures obtained under the Freedom
of Information Act.

The report, Achievable Targets - Is Government Delivering?, states that previous
targets for eliminating the safety repairs backlog were missed back in 2002 and
2003.

In 2002, there were 2,700 fires on NHS properties, which points to obvious
implications for patient safety.

Michael Ankers, chief executive of the CPA, said: "Tackling the current safety
backlog should be a top priority and the Government should set a new timetable
to end it by 2010/11, with an interim target to cut the repair backlog to £1.5
billion by April 2008.

"While the Government might be on target to deliver its programme of new
hospital buildings and healthcare facilities, there remain major areas of the
NHS estate that are in poor state of repair, something which has been linked in
the past to increasing the risk of infection spreading.

"Meeting its target of 100 major hospitals by 2010 is likely to be achieved but
it is doing this by deferring major projects in its original plan and replacing
them with smaller projects that are easier to finish."

The CPA report, which has been endorsed by CBI director general Sir Digby Jones,
is being presented at the Labour Party Conference.

It shows the Government is missing targets in a range of public service sectors,
and failing to set new targets. In many areas it is not even monitoring progress
towards meeting targets.

The UK remains at the bottom of the European league for the percentage of GDP
invested in construction - just seven per cent compared with

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              373 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily Independent (Lagos)

                                 March 15, 2015

Rivers Govt Laments Escalation of Political Violence

BYLINE: Daniel Abia

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: Harcourt


The Rivers State government has lamented the sudden escalation of political
violence in the state, which it claims are politically motivated, mostly by the
opposition main political party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).

It would be recalled that the state has witnessed an upsurge in politically
motivated violence since January, leading to the death of party members and
supporters of the two leading political parties in the state, PDP and the All
Progressives Congress (APC).

The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Sampson Parker, raised the alarm at a
press conference, in Port Harcourt on Saturday.

He said that he and his colleagues at the ministry "toil daily to ensure that we
provide services, given available resources in health care delivery because of
an increase in the number of victims of politically motivated violence".

Parker stated: "We have built some of the best health centres, hospitals and
other medical institutions.

"However, daily, our people are confronted with danger as they go about their
normal and lawful businesses.

"Fellow citizens, an orgy of political violence have been unleashed on the
people of Rivers State and we are seeing an abnormal increase in deaths and
injuries as elections approach".

Parker gave the statistics from the Braithwaite Memorial Specialist Hospital
(BMSH) and Kelsey Harrison Hospital from January to March 12 as 41 gunshot
injuries and 26 assaults, including machete injuries.

"Be mindful of the fact that we have not stated figures for deaths arising from
this new epidemic.

"The reason is that the dead were not brought to the hospitals. However, we as
reported in the news recently, there have been killings at Oroworukwo, Okrika,
Omoku and numerous others around the state", he said.

"There is no doubt in my mind that there are cases which were neither reported
to the police nor government health facilities. "Therefore, the figures given to
you here do not reflect the true index of political violence in our state.
Indeed, they may just be the tip of the iceberg.

"Let us note here that the Ebola scourge for which the country and our state
rose up as one to combat only accounted for 10 deaths in Nigeria, out of which
two were in Rivers State.

"Today, we go about our lives as if we have accepted this ominous situation".

Parker said that he has decided to raise the alarm because the duty of those in
the Ministry of Health is to save lives, adding, "we are also using this
opportunity to warn our people and make them aware of the danger to our way of
life.

"Election period should be a time for debates, exchange of ideas, mobilisation
of the people, exhibition of ambitions and greater gainful activities for our
teeming youths.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

Vice premier calls to speed up hospital reform

LENGTH: 202  words


Chinese Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli on Tuesday called to speed up public hospital
reforms and support medical services run by social capital.

BEIJING -- Chinese Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli on Tuesday called to speed up public
hospital reforms and support medical services run by social capital.
Special: Two Sessions

Zhang made the remarks while participating in a panel discussion with political
advisors from the sport and health sectors at the ongoing annual session of the
Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee,
the country's top political advisory body.

He also called to improve the operational mechanism of grass-root level health
institutions, and to perfect an all-inclusive medicare system.

He said political advisors have contributed to China's economic and social
development by conducting investigations and studies and putting forward candid
suggestions and comments thereon.

He asked the political advisors to continue to offer wisdom and strength to
promote China's sustainable and healthy economic development.

The vice premier also urged to strengthen public services in the sport sector
and improve sporting facilities so as to enhance the physical quality of the
nation.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                            October 7, 2004 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Pledge to inject regional health workforce;
ELECTION 2004 AUSTRALIA DECIDES

BYLINE: MELISSA CHAIN State Political Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 245 words


AN extra 40 medical student places at Newcastle University will be fully funded
to ensure regional hospital requirements are fulfilled by 2007 if Labor is
elected this Saturday.

Labor's spokeswoman for health, Julia Gillard, flanked by local MPs at John
Hunter Hospital yesterday, announced the injection to improve future medical
services in the region.

The move comes after the university's health pro-vice-chancellor, John Marley,
told The Herald this week that Newcastle's allotment of 80 HECS places fell 22
short of the yearly intern workforce needed to staff Central Coast, Hunter and
New England public hospitals.

But Ms Gillard said data showed regional medical students tended to return to
the area as doctors.

"It makes good sense to increase medical places at a regional university that
specialises in the training of GPs and is located in a region with serious GP
shortages," Ms Gillard said.

She said Labor's promise was a much better outcome for the Hunter Region than
the Coalition's commitment of $29 million for two new medical schools in Sydney.

Professor Marley said the additional placements at the Callaghan Campus medical
school would help the university meet the growing needs of the region.

Dr Annette Carruthers of the Hunter Urban Division of GPs also welcomed the
announcement.

Ms Gillard also reaffirmed Labor's pledge of $6.5 million a year for four years
towards running the Hunter GP Access After Hours service.

Paterson electorate profile, Page 14

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FUNDING: Member for Charlton Kelly Hoare, ALP candidate for Paterson
Giovanna Kozary and Opposition health spokeswoman Julia Gillard.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            November 13, 2009 Friday

Burnley MP's message to political rivals: stop hospital 'scare stories'

BYLINE: Neil Docking

SECTION: EAST LANCASHIRE NEWS (EASTLANCASHIRE)

LENGTH: 406 words


BURNLEY MP Kitty Ussher has accused rivals of undermining public confidence in
East Lancashire's hospitals.

And the MP said the Government was concerned by 'scare stories' about the
hospital being 'spread' by political leaders in the town.

The Labour minister said she had received a promise from the Health Secretary
Andy Burnham that he would look at what could be done to reassure people
following a meeting with him in parliament on Monday.

She said: "He was particularly concerned that some people in Burnley were making
unnecessary journeys to Blackburn emergency department because of the scare
stories that have been flying around, when they could just as well be treated in
Burnley.

"I share his concern and think it is a shame that some local politicians seem to
want to talk our hospital down.

"There is a campaign called 'I want my hospital back' and there is a perception
put about by some of the town's senior leaders that there is either no A&E
provision at all in Burnley or no hospital.

"Eighty five per cent of patients previously seen at Burnley can still be
treated at Burnley's urgent care centre.

"The message is simple. Have confidence in our hospital because it's great and
it's getting better."

The MP said Andy Burnham was pleased that there was 'clear evidence that more
lives had been saved' following the 2007 decision to close Burnley's A&E
department and move blue light care to Royal Blackburn Hospital.

She said: "There is now independent evidence that around 200 lives have been
saved since the changes to Burnley and Blackburn hospitals."

Hospital critic Gordon Birtwistle, the leader of Burnley Council, said political
leaders were only responding to the 'horrendous experiences' of patients from
the town forced to visit Blackburn.

He said: "I don't know how she has the brass neck to blame local politicians for
what is going on in East Lancashire when its her cohorts and her Government that
is responsible and she has not once supported our campaign."

Ian Woolley, former hospitals trust chairman and critic of the A&E re-structure,
insisted it was people's right to ask for their emergency department in Burnley
to be reinstated.

He said: "Kitty Ussher seems to be completely ignoring the request of local
people to see Burnley A&E reopened when she should be supporting her fellow MP
Gordon Prentice and Peter Pike in their campaign for an independent review which
could put this matter to bed once and for all."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               November 14, 2003

Pressure Grows At Holyrood

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words


Political pressure is growing to prevent the loss of acute services at the
Belford Hospital in Fort William and the Lorn and Isles Hospital in Oban.  The
growing political activity follows two packed public meetings in both towns this
week at which hundreds of people had to be turned away for lack of space.

The meeting in Fort William is thought to have been the best ever attended
public meeting in Scotland, attracting one-fifth of the local population. The
following night, hundreds packed into Oban High School.

Fergus Ewing, SNP MSP for Inverness East, Nairn and Lochaber, lodged a
parliamentary motion yesterday designed to gather cross-party support for the
Lochaber option for Belford to be a consultant-led facility.

It follows informal efforts by a consultant at the hospital to see how many of
his colleagues around the country would be willing to move to Fort William.

Mr Ewing said: "The massive attendance at the Fort William meeting on Tuesday
demonstrates that every single political party must now unite in demanding that
the Highland Health Board includes the Lochaber Medical Community option as one
of the options to be the formal consultation process which is to begin in
January.

"It is crystal clear that the health board has failed to evaluate the Lochaber
option and some of their objections, such as the lack of consultants willing to
work in Fort William, are now proved to be totally wrong." Dr Charles
Leeson-Payne, a consultant anaesthetist at Belford, said he had managed to come
up with the names of six consultants willing to work in the area with just a few
telephone calls.

Maureen Macmillan, Highlands and Islands Labour MSP, yesterday discussed the
issue with Health Minister Malcolm Chisholm, but he cannot act until he sees
Highland Health Board's final recommendations.

"We all want to get the best possible solution for the people of Lochaber and
Oban," she said. "There should be an acute hospital in both towns as far as I am
concerned. I hope that the Lochaber option is workable but that will have to be
tested." Highlands and Islands Tory MSP Mary Scanlon said she intended to table
parliamentary questions on the issue. She would also be writing to Belford-based
consultant David Sedgwick and Andrew Sim, of the rural doctors' association, the
Viking Surgeons' Club, to ask them to help draw up options which would gain
widespread support.

Highlands and Islands SNP MSP Jim Mather said: "People retire to the Highlands
and Islands, but how can you retire with confidence to an area where hospitals
have been downgraded?" Argyll and Bute LibDem MSP George Lyon, together with his
Westminster counterpart Alan Reid, will be meeting clinicians and consultants at
Lorn and Islands today.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal


                              378 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

Scott's strange letter

SECTION: A; ARCHIVES; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 666 words


Idea of having hospitals share their 'profits' is no help

If Gov. Rick Scott is truly offended by hospitals making "record profits" and
sincerely interested in ensuring Floridians' access to health care at affordable
prices, he could:

· Call on the Legislature to effectively tax some of those profits generated in
Florida, and use the money to offset the anticipated loss of federal funds for
hospitals that provide a lot of care to low-income Floridians.

· Present his own plan for ensuring that Floridians have access to high-quality
and affordable care, regardless of their incomes.

Such a plan could entail requiring hospitals to provide, in an amount
proportionate to their profits, discounted or free care to uninsured and
underinsured Floridians.

· Have his political committee return the latest check it has received from
hospital corporations -- this one for $100,000, from a political action
committee for HCA, a behemoth whose profits have soared.

None of those things are likely to happen, of course, because Scott is keeping
his future political options open and doesn't want a tax proposal on his record.
Plus, he has shown little interest in using the governor's office to help expand
access to health care.

Budget crisis

As has been well reported, Florida is on the verge of a budget crisis linked to
a dispute over the expansion of Medicaid and the likely loss of additional
federal funds. The Senate passed a budget bill that included a conservative
version of Medicaid expansion; the House of Representatives and Scott oppose the
bill.

The annual legislative session ended in a stalemate, without an approved budget.
(A special session is scheduled to begin June 1.)

Scott responded first by creating a Commission on Healthcare and Hospital
Funding, an oddly timed move that seemed aimed at intimidating hospitals that
have lobbied for Medicaid expansion, rather than at providing information useful
for shaping sound policies and informing the debate.

Then, Friday, he sent a letter to hospital executives, subject: "How hospitals
can fairly share record profits."

Actually, the letter does not say how hospitals can "fairly share record
profits" with hospitals "that rely on them most."

It bizarrely asks hospital executives to develop their own ideas.

After reading the letter, we were reminded of the words shouted by former tennis
star John McEnroe, who verbally challenged a Wimbledon referee's blown call: You
cannot be serious!

The governor cites no authority for requiring the hospitals to fulfill his
request.

This isn't baseball

The letter says that sharing hospital profits, which are not defined in the
text, would be akin to revenue sharing "similar to how large-market baseball
teams share revenues with small-market baseball teams."

But the letter was sent to executives at private for-profit, private non-profit
and public hospitals that have different operating models and objectives.

For instance, Scott sent the letter to publicly owned Sarasota Memorial
Hospital, which treats Sarasota County's uninsured patients (and many others
throughout the region) but has a reasonable operating margin and a healthy
"total margin" because its "profits" remain at the hospital and in the community
for investment. What's more, Sarasota Memorial's enabling legislation prohibits
local tax dollars from being spent outside the county, and general law limits
how public hospitals can use other revenue outside their service areas.

In addition, if most of the revenue were sent to large urban hospitals such as
Shands Jacksonville Medical Center (the only hospital specifically mentioned in
the letter), how would hospitals in mid- and small-size counties offset their
federal-funding losses?

Gov. Scott received some criticism for largely staying out of the health-care
debate for most of the legislative session. The critics were off base: In light
of Scott's ill-timed creation of a commission and last week's strange letter,
Floridians were better served when the governor was doing nothing.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 1, 2004

OPERATION SAVE MY SKIN

BYLINE: Andrew Nicoll, Scottish Political Reporter

LENGTH: 239 words


Chisholm halts hospital axe hours before confidence vote

UNDERFIRE Health Minister Malcolm Chisholm made an embarrassing U-turn over
plans to axe a hospital yesterday - hours before a crucial no-confidence vote.

Mr Chisholm dramatically halted the controversial plans to close Glasgow's Queen
Mother's maternity unit.

And he pledged to keep it open until a Pounds 100million complex to house it and
the city's Yorkhill Sick Kids Hospital is finished.

Decision

Campaigners fighting to save the Queen Mum's were last night delighted at the
decision.

But political rivals branded it a "stay of execution" for the Health Minister.

Last night Tory leader David McLetchie hit out: "There were serious questions
about his competence and a back bench rebellion was on the cards.

"Malcolm Chisholm has only bought a stay of execution to keep his Labour and Lib
Dem troops on side, but this is a temporary reprieve." The SNP's Holyrood leader
Nicola Sturgeon also attacked Mr Chisholm, demanding he also help the threatened
emergency department at Livingston's St John's Hospital.

But the Health Minister said the plans represented the "gold standard" in health
care. He added: "I recognise that the Queen Mother's and Yorkhill provide an
important national service for the whole of Scotland."

Campaigner Sarah McHenry, 33, said: "Treatment provided at the Queen Mum's to
expectant mothers is fantastic."


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              380 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                    NewsDay

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

'Lack of political will exposing people to killer diseases'

LENGTH: 434  words


A LOCAL public health lobby group, Community Working Group on Health (CWGH),
says lack of political will to effectively address serious concerns affecting
the health sector has left millions of people exposed to killer diseases.

Feluna Nleya
Staff Reporter

The group cited the country's heavy dependency on donor funding to support the
health sector as a ticking time bomb.

In an interview with NewsDay yesterday, CWGH director Itai Rusike said the
country needed a vibrant health sector for the good of the people which was
being affected by lack of political will among the leaders.

"The biggest challenge we are facing is an underperforming economy, skewed
priorities and lack of political will to get projects in the health sector
implemented," Rusike said.

Health and Child Care minister David Parirenyatwa is on record saying the
government was planning to construct two district hospitals in Harare and
Bulawayo to ease pressure at the main public hospitals.

But Rusike said the project had been on the drawing board since independence in
1980 because of lack of political will by government.

"The proposal to build district hospitals in Harare and Bulawayo has been
discussed since the early days of independence when our economy was at its peak
and it has remained on the drawing board without any implementation," Rusike
said.

"It will be a huge challenge for both the government and the concerned local
authorities to build the hospitals in the current economic environment when most
of the hospitals and clinics are in a dilapidated state with obsolete equipment
in urgent need of replacement."

"My advice to the authorities is to use the little available resources to make
our public health system functional again like what it used to be."

Rusike said the idea to upgrade the existing polyclinics to a district hospital
rather than construct new facilities was the best option.

"Resources are needed most in the existing clinics and hospitals that are
failing to provide quality service in line with the provisions in the new
Constitution that now guarantees the right to health that unfortunately is only
on paper and yet to be enjoyed by the majority of the population that depends on
public health delivery," Rusike said.

"We definitely need district hospitals in Harare and Bulawayo as primary health
care has always been poor in these urban areas with patients directly presenting
themselves at central hospitals such as Parirenyatwa and Mpilo without following
the referral chain with cases that should be dealt with at lower levels thereby
suffocating the central system and increasing the workload."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1279


                             Copyright 2014 NewsDay
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               September 20, 2001

City children's hospital campaign is launched

SECTION: POLITICS: OTHER GEN, Pg.10

LENGTH: 1284 words


A campaign was laun-ched in Swansea yesterday to create a new regional
children's hospital at Morriston.

It would cost around GBP 6million and cater for up to 150 youngsters on the site
of Morriston Hospital.

It could be a new building on the hospital campus or an extension on part of the
existing network of buildings.

The campaign was launched by Plaid Cymru, the second biggest party in the
Assembly, a week before the voters of Swansea East go to the polls to elect a
new AM following the death of Val Feld in July.

Plaid's candidate in next Thursday's by-election John Ball told a news
conference of his vision of developing a landmark facility in children's health
care in the city.

"Establishing a specialist children's hospital in Swansea serving the whole of
South West Wales is not only sensible but long overdue," he said.

"There is ample room at Morriston Hospital ready and waiting."

Shadow health minister Dai Lloyd said he was delighted his party's campaign for
a children's hospital came in the week the new Swansea Clinical School opened
its doors for the first time.

Morriston Hospital accident and emergency specialist Michael McCabe said it was
a major initiative which he hoped would win the support of all political parties
and all the people of South West Wales.

"I'm non-political but I recognise that to have a specialist hospital here in
Swansea would be a major advance in child care," he told the Post.

He said Morriston already had a range of trauma specialists and teams, unique in
Southern Britain, providing services for burns and facial injuries, plastic
surgery and neurosurgery.

Mr McCabe added: "It is an existing opportunity for Swansea to have all aspects
of child healthcare and injuries dealt with on one site.

Consultant paediatrician Dewi Evans said it would not compete with the proposed
children's hospital in Cardiff but would complement it.

"It is unrealistic to have just one children's hospital in Wales," he said.

Swansea NHS Trust already provides a service for the largest catchment areas in
Wales for child patients.

"There is a crying need for multi-disciplinary care," said Dr Evans.

"While many services are already provided others are not, for example,
paediatric intensive care does not exist in Swansea."

Plaid Cymru's Carmarthen East and Dinefwr AM Rhodri Glyn Thomas said he hoped
his party's latest campaign would enjoy the success of locating Wales's second
medical school in Swansea.

Welsh ale voted tops by Liberals

OWAIN Glyndwr has been voted tops by a Liberal Democrat Assembly minister -
Owain Glyndwr ale, that is, named after the founder of the first Welsh
parliament 600 years ago.

Culture Minister Jenny Randerson sampled the fine ale during a visit to
Swansea's Tomos Watkin Brewery with the party's candidate in next week's Swansea
East by-election Rob Speht.

The Lib Dem duo unveiled this season's Owain Glyndwr ale, first launched three
years ago in memory of the founding figure of the first Welsh Parliament.

Ms Randerson said the tour had been arranged to highlight Liberal Democrat
support for small and medium sized businesses in Swansea.

"Tomos Watkin is a great success story for Swansea, providing jobs in the area
and producing a quality Welsh ale to boot," she said.

"Independent breweries are, sadly, in short supply having suffered at the hands
of big business over the last 20 years."

She added: "It is imperative that the Labour government in Westminster ease the
pressure of red tape on firms such as Tomos Watkin.

"This will help the future of the Welsh beer industry prosper and help put Wales
firmly on the map."

Rob Speht said locally brewed beer had been part of Welsh life for centuries.

"Unfortunately successive governments have allowed large global companies to
dominate the market, mass-producing poor quality beer on the cheap," he said.

"Sadly, this has forced many independent brewers out of business."

Significant jobs boost steps closer to reality

THE prospect of hundreds of new jobs being created at Swansea Enterprise Park
moved a step nearer reality today.

It was welcomed by Labour's candidate in the Swansea East by-election Val Lloyd
who said a major obstacle to the jobs boost appeared to have been overcome.

She was referring to expansion plans by American-owned Alberto Culver, which has
been making a range of hair and cosmetic products in Swansea, for the past 10
years.

In March the company announced it was looking to double its operating capacity
and its workforce from 450 to 900.

The expansion plan attracted a GBP 1million investment from the Welsh
Development Agency.

But it also depended on Swansea Council agreeing to relocate its employment
training centre from the Beaufort works next door to Alberto Culver's Enterprise
Park site.

The centre, the largest of its kind in South West Wales, provides skills
training for 3,600 people supporting 200 local businesses.

The council has now found a new site and preparations are being made for the
transfer.

Although the number of new jobs is put at around 300, less than originally
intended, Mrs Lloyd said it was a significant jobs boost.

"This news is in stark contrast with the knocking stories issued by opposition
parties during this campaign," she said.

Concern over tax increase is voiced

MOVES to slap an extra five per cent on the rates of

commercial and industrial premises could be the

death-knell for many more businesses, leading

Conservatives have warned.

Newly appointed Shadow Welsh Secretary, Swansea born Ribble Valley MP Nigel
Evans, said he was horrified to learn the Assembly planned to raise business
rates. "We should be doing everything to encourage

businesses, not raising their rates which is just going to cripple many of
them," he said.

He was campaigning in Morriston with Tory

candidate Gerald Rowbottom in advance of next week's Swansea East by -election.

Alun Cairns, the

Conservatives' economic spokesman in the Assembly, produced correspondence from
Finance Minister and Gower AM Edwina Hart who acknowledged concerns about the
introduction of

supplementary rate.

Gerald Rowbottom, a

businessman himself, said small businesses across Wales were finding it
difficult to return a profit.

"I'm afraid it might be a step too far for many of them when they hear they may
have to pay an extra five per cent on their rates," he said.

"Looking at the depressing scene in Morriston today, there are boarded-up shops
and others announcing

closing down sales. This tax will cause difficulties for

businesses, not only in

Morriston but throughout Wales."

Socialist call to up basic wage

WELSH Socialist Alliance candidate Alan Thomson is calling for the basic wage to
be increased to GBP 7 an hour.

He is using the Swansea East by-election to highlight the problems of low pay.

And he is advocating that the basic minimum wage be increased to the so-called
European decency threshold of GBP 7 an hour.

"Many low paid workers in Swansea Eastside are

struggling to survive on poverty rates of pay while top directors received
average salary increases of 28 per cent last year," he said.

Mr Thomson, a computer technician from Birchgrove, said he believed poverty was
blighting lives in the Eastside.

He maintained the Labour government had set the

minimum wage far too low because of pressure from business interests.

He went on: "Just look at the salaries being enjoyed by fat cat directors who
have in many cases creamed off

profits while presiding over collapsing companies.

"I also want to see

anti- trade union laws repealed so workers such as those in low paid jobs can
protect their livelihoods,

pensions and pay."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FUTURE VIEW Dr Jean Matthews, (from left) Dr Dewi Evans, Plaid
by-election candidate John Ball and accident and emergency specialist Michael
McCabe proposing the new children's hospital at Morriston. D010919/4513/GW2
brewed to perfection Assembly cabinet member Jenny Randerson with Liberal
Democrat candidate Rob Speht and free trade sales director Phil Moore at the
Tomos Watkin brewery in Swansea. D010918/4473/GM/01 Welcome Labour's Swansea
East by -election candidate Val Lloyd. 01/08/11/3645/HD

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post


                              382 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               December 21, 2000

NHS must not be used as a political football

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.10

LENGTH: 992 words


Yesterday the WMN reported that Derriford Hospital faced a consultants' revolt
over standards of equipment and that management was considering a plan to
accommodate day-case patients in hotels. Here, PAUL ROBERTS chief executive of
Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust, responds

'Hospitals such as Derriford are seeing huge increases in the number of
emergency medical and surgical patients'

IF the newspapers are to be believed, in the spring we will be in the throes of
a General Election. It is very likely that the NHS will be one of the key issues
on the political agenda, and it may well provide the main battleground on which
the election is fought.

Along with education and crime, the NHS is an issue of fundamental significance
to politicians, and its continuing prominence in the political arena is both
understandable and correct.

We should never lose sight of the fact, however, that the NHS is of even more
importance to the public - every one of them is likely to be a patient at some
point in their life.

As the recently appointed chief executive of Plymouth Hospitals Trust, I feel
genuinely saddened when I see issues connected with our hospital, its staff and
services, used as a device to make political capital at the expense of our
credibility, integrity and morale.

A hospital like Derriford should have a place in the affections and minds of
local people which is over and above the realms of political squabbling and
turmoil.

I fear, however, that in the run-up to the next election - and particularly
during the next few months when pressures on the NHS are at their peak - that
the health service is in danger of becoming a political football that is kicked
far too often and far too hard. Alarming headlines such as those that appeared
in this newspaper yesterday are likely to become more common and their
cumulative effect on the health service can only be a negative and increasingly
damaging one.

In the short time that I have been chief executive based at Derriford I have
seen day in, day out the excellence, dedication and unerring commitment of our
staff offering services which would hardly have been dreamt of a few years ago.
People are living longer and enjoying a greater quality of life and this is
partly because of what hospitals like Derriford are able to do for them.

The letters pages of all our local newspapers, which are regularly full of the
appreciation of those we have treated, are a constant and welcome reminder of
the vital role that we play within the community.

It would, however, be wrong of me not to acknowledge that there are problems.

The whole NHS system is under severe pressure, and never more so than in the
winter.

GPs are faced with more patients needing to see them, district nurses are caring
for a group of ever-increasingly dependent people in their own homes and
hospitals such as Derriford are seeing huge increases in the number of emergency
medical and surgical patients being admitted into the hospital.

Overlaying this situation is the ongoing requirement to reduce our waiting lists
for outpatient and routine treatments.

There is nothing that the hospital and its staff want to do more than to meet
these demands and meet the public's high expectations of the NHS on a day-to-day
basis, but the tremendous pressure on the NHS is something that needs to be
acknowledged. This is not a plea for sympathy - far from it. It is, however, a
plea for the NHS to be accorded a certain degree of understanding by those who
comment publicly on it, and a plea too for common sense and realism.

Already this year, local newspapers have been full of headlines about
difficulties in recruiting nurses and the need to develop more NHS facilities,
both in the community and at the hospital.

More nurses, more doctors and more buildings will be needed for the health
service to deliver what everybody, including the Government, expects of it
during the next few years and we are working hard to make this happen.

I have no doubt that our counterparts in education, social services and other
parts of the public sector are experiencing similar tensions between resources
and expectations.

Hospitals are very complicated places. At Plymouth Hospitals Trust alone we have
around 5,000 staff from many different professional backgrounds working together
to provide care for patients.

To deal properly with the sort of pressure which we face every day, we need to
work as a team and the team effort can be easily and quickly undermined by those
with an alternative agenda.

You rarely see the word "memo" nowadays unless it is immediately preceded by the
word "leaked" and the issue of confidential material finding its way to the
media is both topical and well-documented. Leaked memos are relished by
journalists and universally abhorred by the organisations concerned.

They are invariably anonymous (Mr X and Mrs Y are seldom anywhere to be found
when it comes to substantiating alleged deeds or comments) and can cause untold
amounts of unwarranted and unnecessary work and anxiety for no gain whatsoever.

As a matter of personal principle, I would never seek to stifle any form of open
and constructive debate on NHS issues, but colleagues undermining each other and
their organisation anonymously in the press is difficult to defend on any level.

While I have no desire to wash linen, dirty or otherwise, through the pages of
the Western Morning News, I would make a heartfelt request to anyone within or
connected to the healthcare community to recognise the damage that can result
from such behaviour and to examine both their motives and their conscience
before they act.

Caring for patients is more important than the political wrangling which, all
too often, engulfs the NHS.

I am hopeful that we can spend more of our time in the future maintaining and
improving our service to patients and less of it being sucked into political
battles in the press.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Western Morning News


                              383 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Rs 589.5m to hospitals with politicians' stake

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, July 14 -- Several government hospitals, including major ones like
Bir Hospital and Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH), have been
struggling to meet their daily costs and pay salaries to staff, due to budget
crunch.

However, hospitals named after the deceased leaders of major political parties
like Nepali Congress and CPN-UML or in which influential leaders of those
parties have invested have received huge grants from the Ministry of Health and
Population (MoHP).

According to its own report, MoHP has provided Rs 589.5 million in grants to 37
hospitals in the ongoing fiscal year, and the leaders of the ruling Nepali
Congress and CPN-UML have stakes in a majority of these.

Officials at MoHP said that the amount provided to those hospitals is almost
twice the annual grant for Bir Hospital. Bir provides treatment to over 350,000
patients every year, including 75 percent free treatment to indigent patients.

Authorities at Bir said that it has to struggle to pay the salaries of its staff
and has been running into debt. "MoHP has provided us an additional grant to pay
staff salaries but we are still in debt," Dr Swyam Prakash Pandit, director at
Bir, said adding that the hospital owes over Rs 50 million to contractors
supplying medicines and accessories.

However, MoHP does not even bother to inquire about the number of patients in
hospitals in which the political leaders have invested. The ministry also does
not take any notice how many patients are benefiting from its largess. Source at
MoHP said investors and employees at those hospitals even draw bonuses from
these funds.

A list provided by the ministry shows that hospitals in which leaders of the
Nepali Congress and CPN-UML have shares took Rs 100 million in grants this year.

According to MoHP, Mahendra Narayan Nidhi Hospital received Rs 50 million in
grant from MoHP. Bimalendra Nidhi, son of the late NC leader Mahendra Narayan
Nidhi, is minister for physical infrastructure and transport management.
Likewise, the Susma Koirala Memorial Trust received Rs 10 million in MoHP grant.
GP Koirala Center for Respiratory Diseases took Rs 20 million, and the BP
Memorial Hospital, Rs 10 million.

Similarly, Puspalal Hospital run by Janswastya Sarokar Trust received Rs 40
million. BP Eye Foundation received Rs 10 million, Manamohan Community Hospital
Rs 50 million, National Kidney Center Rs 50 million and the Sahid Memorial
Hospital, Jhapa received Rs 10 million. Sahid Memorial Hospital, Kathmandu took
Rs 50 million.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                          December 27, 2001, Thursday

Watch on our hospitals

BYLINE: By Political Reporter SUSIE O'BRIEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words


PATIENTS and doctors dissatisfied with the state's health system are being
encouraged by the Labor Party to come forward.

Labor MP Jennifer Rankine is heading a "hospital watch team" which will monitor
the state's public hospitals.

Yesterday, she invited the public and medical staff to phone her with
information on ambulance diversions, bed shortages, delays in accident and
emergency treatment, and surgery cancellations.

"Labor wants hospital staff, patients and their families to let us know what's
happening in our public hospitals over the holiday season," Ms Rankine said.
"This way we will be able to highlight the importance of public hospitals to
South Australian families and prevent the Kerin Government from covering up the
true situation."

She said she was concerned doctors and nurses had been "gagged" from speaking
out on behalf of patients.

"We are not asking professionals to violate ethics but if families are happy to
be identified, then we will pass on the stories of their experiences," Ms
Rankine said.

Information gathered will be provided to Opposition Leader Mike Rann and health
spokeswoman Lea Stevens for further action and policy formulation.

Other members of the health watch team include southern suburbs Labor candidate
Moira Deslandes, western suburbs Labor candidate Paul Caica, and Whyalla-based
Labor MP Lyn Breuer.

A Government spokesman yesterday described the hotline as "another political
stunt".

"We would hope the Labor hotline is also prepared to take calls from the
hundreds and thousands of South Australians who are happy with the treatment in
our hospitals," he said.

"While there are always going to be issues within any hospital system that need
to be addressed, if you listen to Labor, nothing good ever happens in our
hospitals.

"What an insult that is to our thousands of hard-working doctors and nurses."

Labor's hotline telephone number is 8289 0700.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2001 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              385 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                             August 31, 2014 Sunday

Roadblocks, fear of arrests: Hospitals in twin cities witness decline in
patients

LENGTH: 426  words


Public sector hospitals in the twin cities have witnessed a sharp decline in the
inflow of people seeking medical care over the last two weeks.

The reason behind this unexpected fall is not, however, an improvement in public
health, but fear of arrest under Maintenance of Public Order and the
inconvenience of roadblocks amid the uncertain political situation in the
capital, sources at hospitals said.

"The number of outpatients at District Headquarters Hospital (DHQ) has
significantly declined in the last two weeks," Causality Medical Officer Dr
Arshad Nazir told The Express Tribune.

He said the number of patients has dropped almost 20 per cent in the wake of the
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) and Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT) sit-ins and
subsequent developments.

Holy Family Hospital, which is the largest public sector hospital in Rawalpindi
division, treats patients from the twin cities and also northern parts of the
country. It has also seen a decline in patient numbers over the last two weeks.

enazir Bhutto Hospital (BBH) Causality Medical Officer Dr Rana Abbas, however,
said that the number of patients has increased in the hospital due to the
temporary closure of several private hospitals and clinics in the wake of the
prevailing political situation.

He said that roadblocks and barricades at entry and exit points near Islamabad
were the main reasons behind the concentration of patients at the hospital. He
said that the BBH covers a large area stretching from Saddar Baruini to
Faizabad, Sadiqabad and adjoin areas.

Dr Abbas also said that the hospital has witnessed 20 per cent increase in
outpatients in the last 15 days.

Meanwhile, sources at the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) in
Islamabad said that the number of patients dropped significantly in the first 10
days after the PTI and PAT marchers arrived in the capital, but the figure had
slowly begun normalising after the local administration removed roadblocks. The
sources added that the hospital was still on alert due to the uncertain
political situation.

Muhammad Shabbir, who hailed from Muzaffarabad, said that due to roadblocks and
precarious political situation in the capital, he had to wait for more than a
week to bring his mother, a heart patient, to Pims. He said that he was still
uncertain how things will turn around.

Asghar Shabbir, who hailed from Attock, said that he had to wait for days before
visiting Pims for a postoperative check-up as he was unsure of how he would get
in and out of the capital.

Published in The Express Tribune, August 31st, 2014.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 16, 2005, Wednesday

LEAVE REDDITCH ALONE - TAYLOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 262 words

HIGHLIGHT: Richard Taylor


The MP representing Wyre Forest in Worcestershire - where services were axed
from Kidderminster Hospital - has warned history must not be allowed to repeat
itself in Redditch.

Richard Taylor (Ind Wyre Forest) said: "There is a huge, huge problem."

He was leading a Commons debate on health services in the county, as a campaign
against proposed cuts at the Alexandra Hospital in Redditch heated up.

Dr Taylor won his seat in 2001 on a "health concern' platform, defeating a
sitting Labour MP following protests against the downgrading of Kidderminster
Hospital.

Now the same health trust which runs Kidderminster, Worcestershire Acute
Hospitals NHS Trust, has announced plans to cut services at the Alexandra.

Dr Taylor said: "We know that for the first time in its history the NHS as a
whole is not in financial balance this year."

As a result, health trusts had been told to balance their books.

Independent consultants had reviewed operations at Worcestershire Acute
Hospitals NHS Trust and discovered there was scope for savings, he said. "They
found the trust is a high-cost provider compared to its peers."

In theory, savings could be used by ensuring patients were discharged from
hospital more quickly instead of staying in hospital longer than needed.

However, another way of saving money identified by the trust was by cutting
services at Redditch. "Reduction or loss of these services is going to be
violently opposed by everybody," he said. The review of health services across
Worcestershire must be "realistic and fair

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              387 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 23, 2004 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cash injection won't fix health crisis, doctors say;
THE CHOICE 2004

BYLINE: Mark Metherell Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 493 words


Labor's promise to inject $1 billion into public hospitals has drawn a mixed
response from public hospital groups and the nation's most influential doctors'
organisation.

While public hospitals welcomed the plan as a necessary boost to a system under
strain, the Australian Medical Association said the policy was based on "wrong
assumptions about relieving the pressure on hospital emergency departments".

Announcing his plan to "rebuild public hospitals", Labor leader Mark Latham said
access to quality health care was a "human right" and Labor would stop the
development of a two-tier health system.

The difference on health was that "Labor is doing everything to restore and
rebuild Medicare, whereas the Coalition is putting every available dollar ...
into private health".

But the Prime Minister, John Howard, said Labor was taking money away from the
Medicare safety net to increase specialist services at public hospitals.

Labor has pledged $414 million to increase hospital specialist services but the
Health Minister, Tony Abbott, said the abolition of the safety net would put
more pressure on public hospitals.

"Without the security of the safety net against out-of-pocket costs, people will
be more inclined to get tests and specialist consults done in public hospitals,"
Mr Abbott said.

The AMA - which earlier yesterday expressed "outrage" at "the gross
misrepresentation" of doctors in Labor's television advertisements depicting an
auction for a doctor's consultation - said it was not the co-ordinated policy
that was needed.

It was a shortage of hospital beds, not a shortage of general practitioner
services, that was causing queues at public hospitals, the AMA vice president,
Mukesh Haikerwal, said.

The pledge to increase specialist out-patient services by 2.4 million at public
hospitals appeared to be a substitute for the safety net. "But many of these
specialists outpatient services are already being delivered in public hospitals
," Dr Haikerwal said.

The Australian Healthcare Association, representing about 500 public hospitals,
said the Labor plan was "a great start" but it was disappointed it did not
specifically tackle the need for more public hospital beds.

"The declining bed numbers is the major reason for 'bed block' in hospital
emergency departments, resulting in patients spending too long on trolleys
waiting for admission," the association's executive director, Prue Power, said.

The chairman of the National Public Hospital Clinicians Taskforce, John Dwyer,
said the Labor policy was a welcome sign that Labor was serious about supporting
the public system.

Catholic Health Australia said Labor's plan would ease the long waits which
faced more than a million patients in hospital emergency departments,
particularly if Labor also provided solutions to the aged care crisis.

But the Australian Private Hospitals Association said the Labor focus was "too
narrow" and ignored the private hospitals where most surgery was performed.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           April 13, 2005, Wednesday

GENERAL ELECTION 2005: WHO WILL NET THE NHS FOOTBALL;
 HEALTH IS A MAJOR ELECTION ISSUE

BYLINE: JESSICA SHAUGHNESSY

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1084 words


AS POLITICAL footballs go, the health service is the one that certainly sees a
lot of on pitch play.

From MRSA fears to hospital waiting times, from the number of nurses on the
front line to the trial and tribulations of finding an NHS dentist - these are
the burning issues that could swing votes at the polls on May 5.

The ordinary voter, who claims no great political expertise, has a vested
interest in the NHS and often its the one issue we can really relate to.

And as Merseyside is one of Britain's unhealthiest places to live, with high
heart disease and lung cancer rates, many have experience beyond the statistics.

In recent months, Merseyside and Cheshire has been the arena for battles between
Labour and the Tories that have grabbed the nation's attention.

Michael Howard used Cheshire grandmother Margaret Dixon and her infamous
shoulder operation to catapult the NHS into becoming one of the foremost issues
in the run up to the election.

Meanwhile the slow progression of the Smokefree Liverpool Bill through the
Commons could be a decider for some.

So what are the health matters that will make the voter sit up and listen in the
next three weeks?

MRSA

EVERY mother's nightmare came true for Michelle Ferguson when she and her
newborn son Fynnley both contracted MRSA.

They were the only two patients to come down with the virus at Liverpool Women's
hospital between April and September last year.

Mrs Ferguson, of Everton, said: 'The whole thing was a terrible experience and
quite frightening.'

Fynnley, who is now seven months old and fully recovered, was taken ill again
when he was three months old.

His mother rushed him to hospital after he had stopped breathing and it was
found he had MRSA again.

Liverpool Women's had the second lowest infection rate of 45 specialist
hospitals in the country, falling from four to two.

The Cardiothoracic Centre and Southport and Ormskirk also saw massive
reductions. In fact, Southport had the lowest infection rate of more than 100
acute general hospitals in England.

But the same success cannot be said for the rest of Merseyside and Cheshire.

Despite a nationwide fall in infection rates, the region saw an overall increase
of 6.6% with the number of cases rising from 151 to 161.

Seven out of 13 hospitals in the area reported and increase, the biggest being
at Aintree, going from 19 to 33 cases.

Hospitals in Mid-Cheshire, North Cheshire and St Helens and Knowsley Hospitals
also saw a big rise.

The MRSA issue is still a political hot potato.

Some experts say media headlines and political stunts have fed public concern
and the fear of the bug is greater than the risk of it.

Others have predicted an even deadlier untreatable version of the virus will
soon surface.

Tory leader Michael Howard has vowed to spend £53m on fighting MRSA if he is
elected.

But Prime Minister Tony Blair shot down these promises saying Mr Howards' sums
just don't add up.

WAITING TIMES

THE case of Penketh grandmother Margaret Dixon, whose shoulder operation had
been cancelled seven times, launched hospital waiting times into the furore of
the election battle Tory leader Michael Howard became the 69-year-old's chief
campaigner when it emerged she was living in pain until the procedure took
place.

Even though she had just a 30% chance of surviving the procedure Mrs Dixon was
desperate for treatment because her quality had life had deteriorated. She was
eventually admitted to Warrington General Hospital last month, and the operation
was a success.

Tony Blair accused Mr Howard of using Mrs Dixon as a political pawn. But the war
of words invited the goverment's record on hospital waiting times to be put
under scrutiny.

In March, 2004, John Reid hoped the number of people waiting more than six
months for hospital treatment would be cut from 79,950 to 46,666, that's 58% by
the end of March this year.

Last month's figures have not yet been released, but February's figures showed
the number had fallen to 60,400 - still a dramatic drop but the the government
had fallen 13,734 short of its target.

According to Department of Health statistics, the number of patients waiting
more than six months to be treated at Aintree Hospitals has risen 2% to 4% from
March 2004 to December 2004.

While the Countess of Chester Hospital has seen an increase from 11% to 13% and
North Cheshire Hospitals' figures have risen from 10% to 14%. At Wirral
Hospitals, the increase was just over 3% to 9%.

While the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen Trust saw a small decrease from 9.8% to
9.4% and the Royal Liverpool Childrens Trust fluctuated from 0% to 0.5

GPS AND DENTISTS

FOR many in Merseyside and Cheshire finding an NHS dentist can be an ordeal, but
when you do, getting an appointment can be even harder.

That is because last year, it was revealed dental patients in Merseyside and
Cheshire struggle to get NHS treatment because the average surgery has 1,121
people on its books,s almost twice the figure in many areas of Southern England.

And the problem is even worse in Ellesmere Port and Neston, which was recently
revealed as having the lowest density of NHS dentists in the country.

The nationwide shortage was illustrated in a study which looked at the number of
dentists per 10,000 people.

While Westminster had the highest with 8.8, Ellesmere Port and Neston only had
1.6. But according to the National Audit Office, at least 50% of people in
Merseyside and Cheshire is registered with a dentist, which is a lot higher then
the rest of England.

Merseyside has also seen a fall in the number of GPs, forcing doctors to deal
with patients over the telephone to save time.

Recently it was revealed the some surgeries are moving away from traditional
face-to-face consultations and towards a service where people are given advice,
test results and sick notes in short phone conversations.

DOCTORS AND NURSES

THE Government is celebrating a record annual increase in the number of
consultants, GPs and midwives working for the NHS.

A staff survey showed the NHS recruited over the past year an extra 8,000
doctors, 11,200 nurses, 900 midwives and 3,000 therapists and allied health
professionals.

There were 9,200 more consultants working in the NHS than in 1997, an increase
of 42.7%. There were 78,700 more qualified nurses (up 24.7%) and 32,600 more
scientific, therapeutic and technical staff (up 33.8

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Liberal Democratic leader Charles Kennedy and his wife Sarah show their
first baby Donald James to the world yesterday just hours after he was born;
Michaela Bauress, manager of the Welkin, Whitechapel, removing ashtrays on a
smoke-free day last month

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd


                              389 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 3, 2005 Thursday

Chinese dissident diagnosed with 'litigation mania';
Man's freedom after 13 years may be tied to visit from Canadian UN commissioner

BYLINE: GEOFFREY YORK

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


The psychiatric report on Wang Wanxing said he was obedient and stable, except
for one thing: a condition that the Chinese doctors called "litigation mania."

It was an odd diagnosis, not used anywhere except China. It meant that Mr. Wang
was considered crazy because he was persistently petitioning for justice.

The diagnosis was the beginning of a personal nightmare. For 13 years the
pro-democracy dissident was held in a Beijing psychiatric hospital controlled by
the police. He was kept in a special ward with dozens of psychotically disturbed
inmates, including many who had committed murder. Here, he says, he witnessed
regular cases of torture and even sometimes death, inflicted by sadistic staff.

The 56-year-old dissident was finally freed from the asylum in August and sent
into exile in Germany, although his release was not disclosed until yesterday.
And he may owe his freedom to a Canadian as he was released shortly before a
visit to Beijing by Louise Arbour, the former Supreme Court of Canada justice
who is now the United Nations Human Rights Commissioner. The timing was not a
coincidence, according to human-rights activists.

Of the estimated 3,000 political prisoners sent into Chinese psychiatric
hospitals since the early 1980s, Mr. Wang is the first to reach the West and
give a detailed account of his ordeal. His account was released yesterday by
Human Rights Watch, an independent rights group based in New York.

He was first arrested in 1992, on the third anniversary of the brutal military
crackdown on student protesters at Tiananmen Square. He was detained for trying
to unfurl a protest banner on the square, calling for justice and redress for
the victims.

After his arrest, he was sent to Ankang Hospital, run by the Beijing Public
Security Bureau for the custody of people considered criminally insane or a
threat to society. He was briefly released in 1999, but was forced back into the
hospital when he announced that he was going to hold a press conference to
describe his treatment at the asylum.

According to the account released yesterday, Mr. Wang told Human Rights Watch
that he witnessed terrifying levels of violence from inmates and staff at the
hospital. "He frequently had to force himself to stay awake all night to avoid
sudden and unprovoked inmate attacks," the report says.

"Almost every week, and sometimes several times a week, the staff would punish
difficult or stubborn patients by tying them to a bed and administering
painfully high levels of electric acupuncture treatment," the report says. "All
the other patients on the ward were ordered to watch the punishments being
administered."

In one case, Mr. Wang said he personally witnessed a patient dying from a heart
attack as a result of this punishment.

In another case, he said, he saw a patient choke to death after the staff poured
liquid food into his mouth. The man had gone on a hunger strike after he was
placed in the hospital for persistent petitioning activity.

"These reports are credible and disturbing," said Brad Adams, Asia director at
Human Rights Watch. "Wang's release is welcome news, but it highlights the fate
of hundreds of other political detainees forced into psychiatric care in China
for no good medical reason."

Two other political prisoners who survived Chinese psychiatric institutes have
given accounts of their treatment to the German magazine Die Zeit. In an article
to be published today, the two  describe severe punishment and torture they
experienced or witnessed.

"I was tortured three or four times a week," said Qiu Jinyou, who was
incarcerated for 208 days in a psychiatric hospital in the city of Hangzhou
after he petitioned against corruption in his village. "Not even the murderers
there were treated as harshly as inmates of my category - people who had filed
complaints or petitions with the authorities."

Mr. Qiu and the other former inmate, Meng Xiaoxia, said they were subjected to
electric shock treatment. Both of them, like Mr. Wang, were also forced to take
psychiatric medication.

In a medical report given to the German government a week before his release,
the Beijing asylum officials said Mr. Wang "displays impairments of thought
association and of mental logic" whenever the subject turns to politics. "His
[mental] activities are still characterized by delusions of grandeur, litigation
mania and a conspicuously enhanced pathological will."

China's system of psychiatric custody for dissidents, which closely parallels
the use of forensic psychiatry against political prisoners in the Soviet Union
from the 1950s to the 1980s, includes 25 hospitals run by the Public Security
Bureau in cities across the country. Many patients are held in these hospitals
for 20 years or more. The police have sole jurisdiction over the inmates, and
there is no right of appeal or review.

Jerome Cohen, a professor at New York University Law School who is an expert on
Chinese law, says Chinese police still maintain the option of sending detainees
to psychiatric hospitals. "It is a live option," he told reporters in Beijing
yesterday. "While it is not as prominent as it was in the old Soviet system,
it's still there."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Kids' hospital drawn into political battle

BYLINE: James Wood, The StarPhoenix

SECTION: THIRD PAGE; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 593  words

DATELINE: REGINA


The head of the foundation raising money for a planned children's hospital for
Saskatoon called for the foundation to be kept clear of politics as she ended up
caught in a political crossfire Tuesday.

A day after the New Democratic Party accused Saskatchewan Party Health Minister
Don McMorris of misleading the legislature over consultations relating to health
privacy and on the same day Speaker Don Toth ruled there was evidence to support
the contention, the Sask. Party went on the attack Tuesday over an NDP mail-out
that said funding for the proposed children's hospital had been "cancelled."

All but $5 million of the $100 million allocated to the project in the 2009-2010
budget was deferred last year as part of cost-cutting, which the government said
was justified because the hospital was not yet ready to proceed. A further $100
million originally slated for this year's provincial budget was also not
allocated.

However, the government says the money remains in trust under Crown Investments
Corp. and will be available as soon as it is needed.

The Saskatchewan Party caucus issued a news release blasting the NDP over the
issue after children's hospital foundation president Brynn Boback-Lane said in a
Tuesday morning interview on NewsTalk Radio that the NDP mail-out had raised
concerns among donors and parents of children.

The issue also become a talking point for government members in the assembly,
with Premier Brad Wall -- sparring in question period with NDP Leader Dwain
Lingenfelter over McMorris -- saying that "the biggest threat to that
(children's hospital) project . . . is the irresponsibility of that leader of
the Opposition and the New Democratic Party of Saskatchewan."

When contacted by The StarPhoenix on Tuesday afternoon, Boback-Lane was
surprised that her comments had been the subject of a Sask. Party news release.

Boback-Lane was reluctant to comment on the NDP flier, but did say "there is a
difference between postponed and cancelled" and confirmed that the foundation
had received calls over the mail-out.

She would not comment on the Sask. Party news release.

"I really don't want the foundation and our good work to become the focus of a
political debate. That's not our role here. Our role is to fundraise for a
children's hospital and to do our work according to the plan and the plan has
always been that the children's hospital will be built," she said.

Lingenfelter made no apologies for the NDP flier, which began to be mailed last
week, saying the project has been discussed in three budgets with no progress
being made by the government.

He said the Sask. Party's focus on the issue was simply an attempt to "take the
pressure off" the government over McMorris's comment.

Toth ruled Tuesday that there was enough evidence to suggest McMorris misled the
assembly over consultations with the province's privacy commissioner on new
regulations affecting health foundation fundraising that a debate over whether
the minister was in contempt was warranted.

A children's hospital within a hospital has been a long-standing goal in
Saskatchewan.

Originally announced under the previous NDP government, the Saskatoon Health
Region chose Royal University Hospital as the location for the children's
hospital in 2007, with construction slated to start in 2009. In February of this
year, the health region announced the original proposal was going to be
re-evaluated in light of questions from the public, other construction at and
around RUH and rising operating costs.

A panel is expected to report in June.

jwood@sp.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 15, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Siegel takes brunt of commissioners' anger

BYLINE: WAYNE WASHINGTON

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The commission's withholding of a $ 22-million payment to Tampa General Hospital
is seen as a slap at its president.

He offers himself up. Doesn't fight back. Not here anyway, with the public
access television cameras rolling and angry Hillsborough County Commissioners
firing away at him.

Tampa General Hospital president Bruce Siegel adopts the pose and expression of
a petulant adolescent, mad that Dad took the car keys but powerless to demand
their return.

His friends read the next day's headlines and see his unsmiling face in the
newspaper and ask, "Who is this man?"

Certainly, it's not the quiet, witty man his friends have come to know.
Certainly, it's not a man who can't handle hard public blows.

"Given the tenor of the political debate, I think people would think I'm
belligerent, and I'm not," Siegel said. "I'm trying to do the right thing by
this hospital."

Who is this man? Bruce Siegel, 39, Ivy League-educated, husband, father of two,
is many things. But friends and colleagues say he is not a man easily ruffled or
run off.

There's a job to do, and Siegel plans to do it his way: Damn the critics; full
speed ahead.

Today, commissioners plan to discuss releasing all or part of a $ 22-million
payment the hospital expected to receive for providing health care to the poor.
The money has been withheld by commissioners who say they are concerned about
the financial condition of the hospital, which has lost $ 24-million in the two
years since it was privatized in a nasty political fight.

Whatever official reasons commissioners gave for refusing to release the money,
it was widely seen as a slap at Siegel and members of the private board who
oversee the hospital. The move underscored the chasm that has long existed
between local politicians and the man chosen to run a hospital.

Prominent members of Tampa's political establishment said Siegel's credibility
has run dry. "I haven't talked to Bruce Siegel in a year-and-a-half," Tampa
Mayor Dick Greco said. "It is vital that this hospital survives. I don't think I
would operate it the way it has been."

Many others - county commissioners, state legislators, county hospital board
members - agree.

Members of the private board Siegel answers to are not talking about the
criticism their president has endured in his 2 1/2 years at the helm.

In public meetings, however, they have thrown their support behind him. "As a
board, we believe management is getting beaten up terribly, unfairly," board
member Jeremy Ross said.

To Siegel, the critics are of a similar mind: They are angry that the hospital
was privatized over their objections and are using him as a scapegoat.

Siegel's job got tougher when he became the center of a federal extortion
investigation that resulted in subpoenas for  County Commission members and top
county staff. Siegel alleged that two commissioners - Thomas Scott and Jim
Norman - tried to pressure him into awarding a medical equipment contract to
David Bekhor,  their friend and political supporter.

Both commissioners denied the charges, and a subsequent federal investigation
has yet to produce any criminal findings. Siegel won't comment on his role in
the investigation.

Today, as the commission discusses releasing the $ 22-million to the hospital,
another effort will be made to aid the cash-strapped facility. County
Administrator Dan Kleman will ask the commission to help  obtain $ 10-million
from the Legislature to pay for the cost of teaching medical students from the
University of South Florida.

- Staff writer David Karp contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Bruce Siegel

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              392 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                   January 11, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Official adamant Bow Centre will close

BYLINE: ROBERT WALKER

SECTION: CITY & LIFE; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 343 words


The Calgary Regional Health Authority remains committed to closing the downtown
Bow Valley Centre, deputy chairwoman Phyllis Kane said Wednesday.

"We are committed to our business plan which includes the closure of the Bow
Valley," said Kane. "And we will not be diverted from that by political
pressures."

A question mark over the hospital's closure was raised last Friday by an
authority spokesman who acknowledged too many political pressures have built up
for the authority to say when -- or even if -- the hospital will close.

Added Kane: "We are not going to allow political interference to reverse
decisions that are reached on the basis of sound health care and economic
arguments."

However, another member of the board said he's not so sure the closure will ever
happen.

"There are multiple factors like a possible provincial election where the future
of the Bow Valley could become a political issue," said Dr. Rowland Nichol, also
chairman of the Calgary Regional Medical Staff Association.

The Bow Valley is to close in February 1997 but Nichol said this will likely be
delayed until the middle of next year because building elsewhere won't be
complete. And this will place its closure date in the middle of political
re-election wars as they heat up.

The Calgary family physician said it's possible the hospital could be used in a
role similar to the Grey Nuns Hospital in Edmonton, which was converted to a
so-called community health centre but retaining hospital beds.

Doubts over the hospital's closure were raised in comments by authority
spokeswoman Judy Williams.

"The Bow Valley site has a lot of complications to it and it won't be an easy .
. . quick answer," Williams said.

On Wednesday the authority issued an internal newsletter claiming the Herald
erroneously reported Saturday the Bow Valley may not close. However, the
authority is not disputing Williams's comments in interviews directly with the
Herald.

Premier Ralph Klein reaffirmed Tuesday a provincial election will not be held
until 1997.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 3, 1991, Wednesday

Rockefeller pushes health care for children in visit to Atlanta

BYLINE: By A.L. May Staff writerpolitics; health; care; hospitals; insurance;
hospitals

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; SECTION D; PAGE 07

LENGTH: 339 words


CAMPAIGN SWING? The West Virginia senator, a potential presidential aspirant,
also met with Democrats while in Atlanta.

Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) breezed through Atlanta on Tuesday, highlighting
the health-care crisis of children and his potential candidacy for the 1992
Democratic presidential nomination.

He tried to keep the focus on children and health care as he toured an intensive
care unit for tiny newborns at Egleston Children's Hospital at Emory University.

Later, he met privately with Democratic Party leaders at the Ritz- Carlton
Hotel.

At the hospital, he took reporters and camera crews along to see premature
babies tethered to sophisticated life-support systems.

"What you all saw was the most enormous technical wonder and yet, in many ways,
an enormous tragedy," Mr. Rockefeller said afterward.

The senator said many of the intensive care unit's beds would have been empty if
their mothers had gotten prenatal care. In Europe, he said, those children would
have gotten the care because it is mandated by extensive health insurance
programs.

Mr. Rockefeller is the chairman of federal commissions calling for major
programs and tax breaks for children and health care. He is trying to turn his
causes into a political campaign.

"Let me talk about health care," he said when asked about his political
meetings. He also sidestepped questions about President Bush's nomination of
appeals court Judge Clarence Thomas to the U.S. Supreme Court.

Democrats are hungry for a challenger for Mr. Bush. State Democratic Chairman Ed
Sims helped arrange the get-acquainted session at the Downtown hotel for Mr.
Rockefeller.

Gov. Zell Miller did not attend but said the session has encouraged Mr. Sims to
play host at such affairs for each Democratic hopeful who requests it for an
initial campaign visit.

"I'm just delighted that someone of his stature and experience is taking a
serious look at running," said Gordon Giffin, an Atlanta lawyer and party
fund-raiser who attended.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) is briefed on prenatal care
Tuesday at Egleston Children's Hospital by Dr. J. Devn Cornish (center) and Dr.
William Sexon. The senator toured the hospital's intensive care unit. / John
Spink / Staff

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


                              394 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Pakistan Today

                               May 5, 2013 Sunday

Health manifestos of political parties challenged

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


Nur Center for Research and Policy (NCRP) in collaboration with Fatima Memorial
Hospital held a seminar to challenge the health manifestos of leading political
parties prior to the general elections in the country.

The seminar was attended by political party representative, hospital directors
from public and private hospitals, healthcare institutions, members of Pakistan
Medical Association, the healthcare community and the members of the media.

Dr Yasmeen Rashid of Pakistan Tehreek-e- Insaaf and Dr Zia Ullah Bangash of
Pakistan People's Party spoke on the health manifestos of their respective
parties and the implication they had on Punjab and Pakistan should they be
elected.

Fatima Memorial College Principal Prof Humayun Maqsood, Dr Tanweer Anwar of the
Pakistan Medical Association along with development partners and donor agencies
shared their health mandates and their upcoming programs at the seminar.

In conclusion, recommendations were formulated for the provincial health reform
mandate after a collaborative process by the NCRP. These reforms were along the
6 pillars of health system defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO) i.e.
health service delivery, health workforce, health information systems, access to
essential medicines, health systems financing, leadership and governance.

The Punjab provincial health department is currently engaged in drafting its
provincial health policy which broadly aims at provision of affordable,
accessible and quality health care to the people of Punjab in an equitable
manner.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Pakistan Today

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday

Health manifestos of political parties challenged

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


Nur Center for Research and Policy (NCRP) in collaboration with Fatima Memorial
Hospital held a seminar to challenge the health manifestos of leading political
parties prior to the general elections in the country.

The seminar was attended by political party representative, hospital directors
from public and private hospitals, healthcare institutions, members of Pakistan
Medical Association, the healthcare community and the members of the media.

Dr Yasmeen Rashid of Pakistan Tehreek-e- Insaaf and Dr Zia Ullah Bangash of
Pakistan People's Party spoke on the health manifestos of their respective
parties and the implication they had on Punjab and Pakistan should they be
elected.

Fatima Memorial College Principal Prof Humayun Maqsood, Dr Tanweer Anwar of the
Pakistan Medical Association along with development partners and donor agencies
shared their health mandates and their upcoming programs at the seminar.

In conclusion, recommendations were formulated for the provincial health reform
mandate after a collaborative process by the NCRP. These reforms were along the
6 pillars of health system defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO) i.e.
health service delivery, health workforce, health information systems, access to
essential medicines, health systems financing, leadership and governance.

The Punjab provincial health department is currently engaged in drafting its
provincial health policy which broadly aims at provision of affordable,
accessible and quality health care to the people of Punjab in an equitable
manner.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                           May 31, 1988, Tuesday, NOR

Politicians take interest in fight to save Villa

BYLINE: By Victoria Stevens Toronto Star

SECTION: NEIGHBORS; Pg. N8

LENGTH: 595 words


   The fight to save the old Villa hospital in Vaughan is attracting increasing
political interest.

Markham MPP Don Cousens says he has the support of the Conservative caucus at
Queen's Park and plans to get a question asked in the provincial legislature
about why the facility for severely handicapped children and young adults is to
be closed within five years, instead of being renovated or rebuilt.

MP Tony Roman (Ind - York North) wrote a letter to Health Minister Elinor Caplan
a month ago, but hasn't had a reply so far, he said last week.

Increasing demand

"I asked the minister to analyze things very carefully before a final decision
is made," he said. "Our area is rapidly growing and the demand for services will
increase. How is the province anticipating facilities for that?"

The New Democratic Party is getting involved too, says Donalda Jones,
vice-president of the NDP's York Centre riding association and a nurse at the
Villa.

When the riding association has chosen its federal candidate at tonight's
nomination meeting, the candidate will meet with the party's health critic at
Queen's Park to get the issue raised in the Legislature, she says.

To bolster support and raise money to make its case to the provincial
government, the Villa Hospital Association, representing the parents of the 74
children at the hospital, will hold a benefit dinner and dance June 10 at the
Atrium Banquet Hall in Aurora.

The money raised will help pay for a consultant retained to put together a
proposal to the health ministry, says Bev Griffith, president of the parent
association. The association suggests renovating the existing 120-bed facility
or building a new hospital on the same site on Bathurst St. north of Highway 7.

Ministry-owned

The hospital, now called Vaughan Glen, was run privately for 25 years until the
ministry bought it for $5 million a year ago and appointed a board of directors
to administer it as a public hospital.

Parents and employees say they were assured verbally and in writing at the time
that the hospital would continue to operate as before. But last fall, they were
shocked and angry to learn the board planned to close the hospital within five
years, saying the building is in such a poor state of repair it is not worth
renovating.

Donna Scully, the consultant retained by the parents, says she has not been able
to see the full engineering report on the state of repair of the hospital.

"There certainly appears to be some problems, but not of the magnitude the
ministry is talking about," she says.

Scully says there's "no logic" to removing 120 chronic care beds from the region
when it's growing so rapidly and is already short of chronic care beds. Nor does
it make sense to remove the children against their will from an environment
that's been like a home to them for years, she adds.

Worst fear

Most of the patients are not "developmentally handicapped" and able to live in a
group home situation, but are "severely handicapped" and need institutional
care, Scully says.

Griffith says the parents' worst fear is the children will be moved to chronic
care wards in hospitals with the elderly and the dying and not receive the kind
of care and stimulation they get from the staff at Vaughan Glen and volunteers
in the surrounding community.

Tickets for the benefit dinner cost $25 with a door prize of a trip to Florida
and raffle prizes. They can be ordered by calling Anna Sardaro at 883-0209, Rene
Drielsma at 1-632-8687 in Burlington or Bev Griffith at 881-0387.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              397 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            October 30, 2016 Sunday

Police handcuff ailing PTI worker before taking him to Pims

BYLINE: IKRAM JUNAIDI

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 299

LENGTH: 630  words


Even though it is standard practice for the police to take a handcuffed suspect
to a hospital for treatment if necessary, the police's decision to handcuff a
severely weakened Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) worker and take him to the
Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (Pims) has triggered a debate about how
ethical the step was.

Pims Vice Chancellor Dr Javed Akram has distanced himself from the move, saying
the patient was brought from Adiala Jail and police had already handcuffed him.

However, Supreme Court advocate Riasat Ali Azad, who specialises in criminal
cases, said handcuffing a poor political worker was a violation of Article 25 -
which ensures equal treatment for every citizen - since this would not happen to
the head of a political party.

Pims management, police criticised for 'unethical' step

PTI leader Asad Umer also criticised the police's treatment of the party worker,
calling it unethical.

Baitullah, a 51-year-old PTI worker from Bhara Kahu, was arrested by Golra
police for participating in a youth convention and taken to prison. An FIR was
registered against him and others under section 188.

However, he began to have chest pains while in jail and was taken to Pims for
treatment on Friday. While he did receive medical treatment, Baitullah was
handcuffed. An image of the handcuffed PTI worker was shared on social media,
leading to criticism of the hospital's management.

Dr Akram admitted that he faced some criticism over the matter, and said the
hospital management was blamed for it.

"We have nothing to do with the patient. [He] was brought by the police and they
put handcuffs on him. We told the police to remove the handcuffs while the
angioplasty was being done, but they put them on again."

"The police shifted the patient - whose heart was working at around 20pc - to
the hospital, and we applied two stents at the hospital's expense because it was
an emergency case. We may not get the price of the stents and the fee for the
angioplasty, but we have still been facing criticism," he complained.

When asked about the patient's condition, Dr Akram said it will be suggested
that the political worker not be taken to jail again as he needs rest for around
three weeks.

"We will also strictly advise him not to take part in any political activity for
the next few weeks, because it could be dangerous for him. The patient may spend
another day or two in the hospital's cardiac care unit and then he will be
discharged."

Mr Azad told Dawn that handcuffs are only applied to hardened criminals, or
criminals desperate to flee - they cannot be used on political workers.

"Senior politicians have been arrested a number of times, but handcuffs - which
are for proclaimed and hardened criminals - are never applied to them. It is a
clear violation of Article 25, which ensures equal rights for all the citizens
of Pakistan. A political worker should not be treated like a terrorist," he
said.

The duty officer at the Golra police station, Ameer Bux, said handcuffs are used
on suspects brought from prison to keep them from escaping.

Another official who asked to remain anonymous said police officials are
responsible for ensuring a suspect does not run away.

"A number of times, suspects run from district courts and even from hospitals,
because of which police officials get suspended," he said.

Because of the criticism, a magistrate visited the patient at the hospital,
removed the handcuffs and approved his bail.

Jan Badshah, Baitullah's relative, told Dawn Baitullah had been handcuffed since
Friday.

"We went to the court of the assistant commissioner in the morning to get bail
but he was not in his office. However, when the issue became the talk of the
town, an assistant commissioner came to the hospital and approved Baitullah's
bail," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

Nurses strike takes a political turn

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, Feb. 8 -- In a turn of events that could well give a political colour to
the ongoing nurses strike, a number of political outfits have joined the
striking nurses at the Kolenchery MOSC Medical College.

While several groups, including the BJP and the Shiv Sena, have declared a
hartal in Kolenchery on Wednesday, the Youth Congress held a protest march to
the hospital on Tuesday.

The All-India Nurses Welfare Association, which is holding the strike at
Kolenchery MCH, has declared that a 'Samara Samithi' will be formed with the
participation of the various outfits that have declared solidarity with the
strike. "Several organisations have pledged solidarity with us. We will be
forming a Samara Samithi with these organisations to take the movement forward,"
said the State Secretary of the association, Shivprasad Unni.

Tuesday also witnessed the failure of yet another round of talks between the
hospital authorities and the union. "The hospital agreed to implement some of
our demands but put forth the condition that we must end the strike if further
discussions are to take place. They have called for another round of discussions
on February 9. We are willing to take part in it," he said.

Social activist C R Neelakantan who visited the hospital said,"This issue has
gone beyond the local level. If the impasse continues any longer, we will also
join the nurses on the fast." The fast entered the 5th day on Tuesday.

Meanwhile in Lakeshore Hospital too, several political parties, including the
AIYF, Kerala Congress (Jacob), the BJP and several trade unions have pledged
solidarity with the nurses. The United Nurses Welfare Association conducted a
candlelight vigil at Lakeshore Hospital. About 700 nurses walked up to the
Nettor Palli from the hospital and back.

The IMA denied their earlier statement about seeking ESMA against striking
nurses. The IMA, however, said that crucial medical personnel, including doctors
and nurses should deter from protesting in a way that affects emergency
services. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday

Hospital is inevitably a 'political football'

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 187  words


The chief executive of my local hospital trust has expressed concerns  Stafford
Hospital may be turned into a "political football" in the election.

There are concerns  that would give staff morale more battering, although the
chief executive, Antony Sumara, had told Stafford Borough Council's health
scrutiny committee that staff morale at the hospital was rising again. That was
March 11.

I think the hospital already is a bit of a political football.

I do not want it to become too much of one in a bad way.

I do not want to be hi-jacked by calculating politicians too much, but on the
other hand, the care of patients in the Great British NHS needs to be a major
issue in any General Election. It would be unhealthy if it was not so.

So it should be getting attention from politicians.

There is a need to consider the effects of a hospital becoming a political
football, not only on the staff, but also on the bereaved and on those whose
loved ones suffered when there were problems.

Concerns about staff morale could put some people off from speaking out about
things, though we are very much indebted to staff.

GJ SELLMAN

Stafford

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2010 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 6, 2001 Thursday
                                National Edition

Saskatchewan to keep rural hospitals

BYLINE: CRAIG WONG, Canadian Press

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: REGINA


As governments across Canada look for ways to trim soaring health-care costs,
Saskatchewan, the birthplace of medicare, has decided the answer does not lie in
closing small rural hospitals.

Premier Lorne Calvert announced Wednesday that his NDP-Liberal coalition
government has rejected a recommendation to close 50 of 70 hospitals across the
province, as suggested in a review of medicare released earlier this year.

"When we listened to the voices of Saskatchewan people from across the province,
they made it very clear to us they wanted access to their hospitals, to their
doctors, to their emergency care near to their community," Mr. Calvert said.

The report by Ken Fyke, a former deputy health minister in Saskatchewan and
British Columbia, had recommended closing nearly all the hospitals in rural
Saskatchewan.

Mr. Fyke had said he believed people would be served by fewer, stronger
hospitals. But Mr. Calvert said that wouldn't ensure the financial
sustainability of the health-care system.

"If we were to select 20 of our smallest community hospitals and close them, I
am told the savings would result in about $14-million," he said.

"That represents about two days of funding for the Department of Health. . . .
the larger question of financial sustainability must be a national debate."

The decision not to close smaller hospitals may be the coalition government's
attempt to reconnect with the rural areas, said David Smith, a political science
professor at the University of Saskatchewan.

At one time Saskatchewan had more than 130 hospitals, more than any other
province except Ontario, which had roughly 10 times the population. In 1993, the
NDP government slashed that number by closing 52 rural hospitals.

The New Democrats lost nearly all their rural seats in the 1999 election and
were forced into a coalition with the Liberals.

Rod Gantefor of the Opposition Saskatchewan Party said there was nothing new in
the plan.

"These issues have been in the forefront for a long time," he said. "For the
government now to come out and bill this as some revolutionary thing is really
overdone."

The Fyke report was commissioned by former Saskatchewan premier Roy Romanow.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2001 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                         October 28, 1986, Tuesday, WES

Hospital promised by Premier a political hot potato

BYLINE: By Paul Barker

SECTION: NEIGHBORS; Pg. W6

LENGTH: 846 words


   A campaign promise by Premier David Peterson during the last provincial
election has evolved into a political issue for Peel Regional councillors.

At stake is a second hospital for Brampton, which some say should be built as
soon as possible but others say won't be needed until the late 1990s.

The possibility of another hospital being built to help ease overcrowding at
Peel Memorial Hospital was heightened when the Liberals and New Democrats formed
a coalition government 18 months ago.

Earlier in the campaign, during a stopover in Brampton, Peterson told supporters
that he were if elected, a second hospital would be a "major priority" for his
cabinet.

Since the election, there have been some developments. The Peel District Health
Council, an arm of the Ministry of Health, recently approved a report that
recommends development of a multi-tiered facility over the next seven years.

Emergency department

Commissioned by Chinguacousy Health Services Centre Board, which is responsible
for developing the hospital, consultants recommended that a primary-care health
centre be built first. The centre would include an emergency department and
specialized clinics on a 19-hectare (46-acre) site at Bovaird Drive and Bramalea
Rd.

The next phase would include a 120-bed, long-term care area for the chronically
ill, followed by construction of a 300-bed hospital at a cost of $61.7 million.
The hospital is to be operating by 1993.

The consultants say, "Planning for this acute-care hospital should be undertaken
in conjunction with Peel Memorial Hospital to ensure that opportunities for
shared services are maximized, unnecessary duplication of services is avoided
and patient care services are planned on a complementary basis between the two
institutions.

"The success of this project will be dependent upon the ability of the board to
effectively and efficiently direct the planning and construction of each phase
of this project."

Before that begins, however, the board must still contend with Peel council,
which supports the concept but not the timing.

Second report

Council has already adopted a report from Peter Cole, the region's health
commissioner, which recommends the development of the first two phases
immediately but delaying the opening of a hospital until 1998.

As an alternative, the Cole report suggests that a 200-bed expansion take place
at Credit Valley Hospital within the next four years at a cost to the region of
$10.3 million.

By 1995, a shortfall of 209 beds in Brampton and Caledon is predicted. However,
Cole says, "several factors may reduce the severity."

"It is probable that a substantial segment of Caledon's population will continue
to use hospitals in neighboring municipalities.

"Secondly, previous experience has shown that a high percentage of families who
(move) to Brampton from Metro Toronto continue to use hospital services in Metro
for several years.

"It is likely that Brampton will require a minimum of 200 acute-care beds at the
(Chinguacousy) site by 1998 to keep pace with population growth and to enable
specialty services to be developed at the two hospitals."

Chinguacousy Health Services Centre Board chairman Jim Yarrow says the adoption
of the report by council was not a "practical decision but a political one.

On back burner

"Our major concern is that the project not be put on the back burner for
political reasons," he says.

Bramalea Councillor Nancy Porteous says regional staff used "statistical facts
instead of human facts" in reaching the conclusions.

"The hospital itself is needed today but by the latest in 1993, especially
considering the growth rate," she says.

She said in an interview the entire hospital issue has a "parochial flavor" and
"politics will determine if the Credit Valley Hospital is expanded before a new
hospital is built in Brampton.

"I have not heard Mississauga complaining about hospital beds," she says, "and
I'm not saying that the Credit Valley shouldn't be expanded. But somehow we have
to figure out a way where the two can be developed hand in hand."

Peel Chairman Frank Bean says he is not anticipating a great parochial fight.

"It will all depend on what the province has to say but the important thing is
that now we have begun to start planning for Chinguacousy.

"I'm an optimist and I think we're going about it in the right way," he says.

Meanwhile, John Butler, executive director of the Peel District Health Council,
called approval of the consultants' report a major step forward.

"There are differences of opinion between the health council and the region but
hopefully any gap between our projections and their own can be narrowed through
discussions," he says.

"It would be terrible if each of us froze our attitudes and positions but the
situations change."

The next step in the development of a second hospital will take place after a
review of the proposal by the Ministry of Health.

Until then, discussions between the region and the health council are to
continue.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1986 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              402 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 21, 1990, Friday

The Liberal Democrats in Blackpool: NHS ballots call

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 4

LENGTH: 68 words


An emergency motion demanding ballots among health service staff by hospitals
seeking to opt out of health authority control was passed by the conference
yesterday.

The motion, moved by David Bellotti, the party's candidate in the forthcoming
by-election at Eastbourne, stated that allowing hospitals to become
self-governing trusts would disrupt health care planning and exacerbate staff
shortages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd


                              403 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                      June 11, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

QUESTION OF THE DAY

BYLINE: PAUL DROHAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 589 words


Waiting and wondering about the truth sometimes is worse than finally hearing
the truth.

Herald columnist Don Martin presented his views of the likely truths amidst the
resounding silence among political candidates about the reality of the impact of
health-care cost-cutting.

His column, Health horrors await (June 9), upset Susan Gallant.

"I work in the operating room at the Calgary General Hospital. I read Don
Martin's column Wednesday. Does he realize how upsetting it is to the staff at
any of the hospitals in Calgary when he prints something like that and doesn't
back it up with any facts? It makes people very upset for their jobs and causes
a lot of unnecessary stress. We know there are job cuts coming but we would like
to know the facts and not be stressed out by these innuendoes in the paper."

Rob Henderson offers suggestions for saving health-care dollars.

"These health care suggestions are from a city boy who knows they how they will
affect the rural folk. I think it is sort of pointless to have hospitals in
small communities which are only 30 minutes away in car or even quicker by
ambulance."

Henderson would change some rural hospitals to extended-care facilities and
trauma centres. ". . . with helicopters and ambulances supporting them instead
of having these hospitals sitting there costing hundreds of thousands or
millions. . . . The Conservatives have catered too much to rural Alberta.

"Usually when someone is taken to one of these smaller hospitals they are
stabilized and taken to one of the major centres where there are trauma centres.
It would be better to have trauma centres throughout the province and fewer
hospitals."

And now something slightly different. We hear a lot today about but not much
from teenagers. Six students from Ernest Manning high school comment today and
Monday on the provincial election.

Kris Noonan: "The huge, crippling deficit and spending are the top issues. I am
also concerned about the federal Young Offenders Act. These issues are not only
important to me but to Ralph Klein and the Progressive Conservative party. If I
was able to vote, I would vote for Klein. He is the only leader who will be able
to follow through in making changes to these issues.

"I think there could be some cuts in education spending without too great an
impact. . . . the Progressive Conservatives will be able to decrease the deficit
quicker than the other parties. I also agree with Klein's points on the Young
Offenders Act and think he would be the best leader to lobby Ottawa to improve
it."

Adam McCrimmon: "Three issues concern me: the deficit, education spending or
rather cutbacks and tax reform. The deficit is an extreme issue that must be
dealt with immediately. The tax reform is directly related to this. The leaders
must see that the deficit is too great to tackle at once. It must be chipped
away slowly. Increasing the taxes by a great amount will do nothing except put
money in politicians' pocket. Taxes must be saved and not spent. This, in the
long run, will spell the end of the debt. The Liberals have the best answer to
this. The PCs and NDP will only take our money and increase the deficit.

"Liberals will not cut back on education spending because they know the
importance of education to someone.

"If I could, I would vote for the Liberals because they have the right answers
and the way to implement them."

HAVE YOUR SAY:

Call 235-7591 to comment on any issue.

Clearly state your name and telephone number.



LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

New LG system soon be finalized: Governor

SECTION: Vol. 12 No. 430

LENGTH: 707  words


Governor Sindh Dr Ishratul Ibad Khan has said that new local government system
will be soon finalized with consensus of all political allies.

Talking to media after inaugurating Feroza Hashim Block at Kishandevi Sobhraj
Chetumal Maternity Hospital here Wednesday, he said that they were still having
discussions over the local government system with their political allies, adding
when all debatable issues are settled with consensus the new law would be
announced.

He applauded the efforts of President Asif Ali Zardari for his policy to take
every political party on board. "We want a good local government system that
meets the aspirations of common man," Governor Sindh added.

He appreciated establishment of the Feroza Hashim Block at the maternity
hospital, adding a lot of patients will be benefited from it.

Accompanied with Karachi Metropolitan Corporation administrator Mohammad Hussain
Syed, governor Sindh said that this maternity hospital has been providing
medical facilities to Karachiites since its set up, adding now this hospital is
further expanded with public private partnership.

Administrator Karachi briefed the governor on different facilities being offered
at the hospital.

President of Feroza Hashim Foundation, Hashim Sheikh told him that Feroza Hashim
Block is the result of joint efforts taken by City District Government Karachi
and Feroza Hashim Foundation.

He said that construction work started in 2009 and finalized in three years. He
said today this hospital has a capacity of 200 beds in maternity section and 40
beds in pediatric section, making it a 240bed hospital.

Key reforms needed before general polls

Islamabad: Soon general elections will be held but urgent reforms are
outstanding, namely reliable and inclusive electoral rolls, transparent
management of the process by the ECP, an effective system of election dispute
resolution, guarantees for the participation of women voters and efforts to
reduce political violence.

These have been identified as key areas of reform by prominent Pakistani and
international organizations at a news conference held Islamabad on Wednesday, 5
September. The organizations presenting the joint briefing paper "Key Reforms
for General Elections in Pakistan" included Aurat Foundation AF, Human Rights
Commission of Pakistan HRCP, Centre for Civic Education Pakistan CCE, Free and
Fair Elections Network FAFEN and Democracy Reporting International DRI.

They emphasised that to achieve the reforms parliament should immediately begin
an inclusive process of stakeholder consultation based on constitutional
requirements and international law commitments. In addition, the ECP should
establish transparency mechanisms, including full access of observers to results
aggregation and immediate publication of all polling station results.

"The electoral issues identified in the briefing paper require renewed focus and
reform interventions before the next general elections" highlighted the senior
representative of HRCP Nasreen Azhar at the news conference.

DRI's Country Director Vladimir Pran pointed out that "most of the
recommendations in this paper are based on the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights ICCPR, ratified by Pakistan in 2010". He explained that the
reforms identified in this paper are in line with Pakistan's international
obligations for free, fair and transparent elections.

FAFEN representative Rashid Chaudhry highlighted that the paper identifies
reliable and inclusive electoral rolls as one of the key reforms needed.
"Questions and concerns regarding the voter list still exist and we recommend
that the ECP invests additional efforts in providing access of citizens to the
registration he said.

CCE's Executive Director Zafarullah Khan stressed that adherence to the code of
conduct, neutrality of state administration and reduced violence are crucial to
ensuring free and fair elections. He said that "measures are required to ensure
all parties publicly denounce violence, intimidation and coercion".

Aurat Foundation's representative Wasim Wagha emphasized that "there should be
legislation to ensure a minimum level of women's voter participation at polling
stations and in constituencies and this should be implemented by the ECP".

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

New LG system soon be finalized: Governor

SECTION: Vol. 12 No. 430

LENGTH: 707  words


Governor Sindh Dr Ishratul Ibad Khan has said that new local government system
will be soon finalized with consensus of all political allies.

Talking to media after inaugurating Feroza Hashim Block at Kishandevi Sobhraj
Chetumal Maternity Hospital here Wednesday, he said that they were still having
discussions over the local government system with their political allies, adding
when all debatable issues are settled with consensus the new law would be
announced.

He applauded the efforts of President Asif Ali Zardari for his policy to take
every political party on board. "We want a good local government system that
meets the aspirations of common man," Governor Sindh added.

He appreciated establishment of the Feroza Hashim Block at the maternity
hospital, adding a lot of patients will be benefited from it.

Accompanied with Karachi Metropolitan Corporation administrator Mohammad Hussain
Syed, governor Sindh said that this maternity hospital has been providing
medical facilities to Karachiites since its set up, adding now this hospital is
further expanded with public private partnership.

Administrator Karachi briefed the governor on different facilities being offered
at the hospital.

President of Feroza Hashim Foundation, Hashim Sheikh told him that Feroza Hashim
Block is the result of joint efforts taken by City District Government Karachi
and Feroza Hashim Foundation.

He said that construction work started in 2009 and finalized in three years. He
said today this hospital has a capacity of 200 beds in maternity section and 40
beds in pediatric section, making it a 240bed hospital.

Key reforms needed before general polls

Islamabad: Soon general elections will be held but urgent reforms are
outstanding, namely reliable and inclusive electoral rolls, transparent
management of the process by the ECP, an effective system of election dispute
resolution, guarantees for the participation of women voters and efforts to
reduce political violence.

These have been identified as key areas of reform by prominent Pakistani and
international organizations at a news conference held Islamabad on Wednesday, 5
September. The organizations presenting the joint briefing paper "Key Reforms
for General Elections in Pakistan" included Aurat Foundation AF, Human Rights
Commission of Pakistan HRCP, Centre for Civic Education Pakistan CCE, Free and
Fair Elections Network FAFEN and Democracy Reporting International DRI.

They emphasised that to achieve the reforms parliament should immediately begin
an inclusive process of stakeholder consultation based on constitutional
requirements and international law commitments. In addition, the ECP should
establish transparency mechanisms, including full access of observers to results
aggregation and immediate publication of all polling station results.

"The electoral issues identified in the briefing paper require renewed focus and
reform interventions before the next general elections" highlighted the senior
representative of HRCP Nasreen Azhar at the news conference.

DRI's Country Director Vladimir Pran pointed out that "most of the
recommendations in this paper are based on the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights ICCPR, ratified by Pakistan in 2010". He explained that the
reforms identified in this paper are in line with Pakistan's international
obligations for free, fair and transparent elections.

FAFEN representative Rashid Chaudhry highlighted that the paper identifies
reliable and inclusive electoral rolls as one of the key reforms needed.
"Questions and concerns regarding the voter list still exist and we recommend
that the ECP invests additional efforts in providing access of citizens to the
registration he said.

CCE's Executive Director Zafarullah Khan stressed that adherence to the code of
conduct, neutrality of state administration and reduced violence are crucial to
ensuring free and fair elections. He said that "measures are required to ensure
all parties publicly denounce violence, intimidation and coercion".

Aurat Foundation's representative Wasim Wagha emphasized that "there should be
legislation to ensure a minimum level of women's voter participation at polling
stations and in constituencies and this should be implemented by the ECP".

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

New LG system soon be finalized: Governor

SECTION: Vol. 12 No. 430

LENGTH: 707  words


Governor Sindh Dr Ishratul Ibad Khan has said that new local government system
will be soon finalized with consensus of all political allies.

Talking to media after inaugurating Feroza Hashim Block at Kishandevi Sobhraj
Chetumal Maternity Hospital here Wednesday, he said that they were still having
discussions over the local government system with their political allies, adding
when all debatable issues are settled with consensus the new law would be
announced.

He applauded the efforts of President Asif Ali Zardari for his policy to take
every political party on board. "We want a good local government system that
meets the aspirations of common man," Governor Sindh added.

He appreciated establishment of the Feroza Hashim Block at the maternity
hospital, adding a lot of patients will be benefited from it.

Accompanied with Karachi Metropolitan Corporation administrator Mohammad Hussain
Syed, governor Sindh said that this maternity hospital has been providing
medical facilities to Karachiites since its set up, adding now this hospital is
further expanded with public private partnership.

Administrator Karachi briefed the governor on different facilities being offered
at the hospital.

President of Feroza Hashim Foundation, Hashim Sheikh told him that Feroza Hashim
Block is the result of joint efforts taken by City District Government Karachi
and Feroza Hashim Foundation.

He said that construction work started in 2009 and finalized in three years. He
said today this hospital has a capacity of 200 beds in maternity section and 40
beds in pediatric section, making it a 240bed hospital.

Key reforms needed before general polls

Islamabad: Soon general elections will be held but urgent reforms are
outstanding, namely reliable and inclusive electoral rolls, transparent
management of the process by the ECP, an effective system of election dispute
resolution, guarantees for the participation of women voters and efforts to
reduce political violence.

These have been identified as key areas of reform by prominent Pakistani and
international organizations at a news conference held Islamabad on Wednesday, 5
September. The organizations presenting the joint briefing paper "Key Reforms
for General Elections in Pakistan" included Aurat Foundation AF, Human Rights
Commission of Pakistan HRCP, Centre for Civic Education Pakistan CCE, Free and
Fair Elections Network FAFEN and Democracy Reporting International DRI.

They emphasised that to achieve the reforms parliament should immediately begin
an inclusive process of stakeholder consultation based on constitutional
requirements and international law commitments. In addition, the ECP should
establish transparency mechanisms, including full access of observers to results
aggregation and immediate publication of all polling station results.

"The electoral issues identified in the briefing paper require renewed focus and
reform interventions before the next general elections" highlighted the senior
representative of HRCP Nasreen Azhar at the news conference.

DRI's Country Director Vladimir Pran pointed out that "most of the
recommendations in this paper are based on the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights ICCPR, ratified by Pakistan in 2010". He explained that the
reforms identified in this paper are in line with Pakistan's international
obligations for free, fair and transparent elections.

FAFEN representative Rashid Chaudhry highlighted that the paper identifies
reliable and inclusive electoral rolls as one of the key reforms needed.
"Questions and concerns regarding the voter list still exist and we recommend
that the ECP invests additional efforts in providing access of citizens to the
registration he said.

CCE's Executive Director Zafarullah Khan stressed that adherence to the code of
conduct, neutrality of state administration and reduced violence are crucial to
ensuring free and fair elections. He said that "measures are required to ensure
all parties publicly denounce violence, intimidation and coercion".

Aurat Foundation's representative Wasim Wagha emphasized that "there should be
legislation to ensure a minimum level of women's voter participation at polling
stations and in constituencies and this should be implemented by the ECP".

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     May 28, 1998, Thursday, METRO EDITION

Hire a separatist? Callers say non

BYLINE: By Walter Stefaniuk TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 476 words


   Many residents in the nation's capital are furious that David Levine, a
highly experienced hospital administrator who ran unsuccessfully for the
separatist Parti Quebecois in 1979, has been appointed head of a major Ottawa
hospital. The hospital board said it hired him on the basis of his competence,
not his politics.

Tuesday's question: Should a person's political philosophy ever be a factor in
hiring?

NO 39%

YES 61%

155 calls

Politics should be taken into account only when the political view is
anti-Canada. You can't put, in essence, a traitor to our country in important
public office. These separatists should not be walking both sides of the street.

No, unless the person is an anarchist, nihilist, terrorist, his political
position should not have anything to do with it. This man has shown himself
capable of amalgamating hospitals in Montreal. He can do it in Ottawa.

Generally, I would say no. But if a person uses his position to promote a
particular political cause, such as Nazism or separatism, then he should not be
in that position.

No. As long as the philosophy is legal under Canadian law, it should not be a
factor in hiring. This problem with David Levine is ridiculous. He is the best
man for the job.

Yes, if the person is a traitor to the country and belongs to a group of people
determined to break up the country.

No. If this man is the best one for the job, he should have it, and that
irrelevant of how I feel about the Quebec situation.

Yes. Do you think the National Council of Jews would hire (holocaust denier)
Ernst Zundel? Do you think the Fraser Institute would hire (Toronto Councillor)
Kyle Rae? You could go on and on.

No. If the man can do the job, his political leanings shouldn't be a factor. I,
personally, am sick to death of this anti-Quebec rhetoric in Ontario.

Yes. It seems if you're a Nazi and you happen to be hired as a teacher, you can
get fired for it. This Mr. Levine wants to break up the country. That should be
taken into account.

The last time I checked, the PQ was a legal party in Canada and people have the
right to join whatever party they want. Mr. Levine pays taxes and so do
Quebecers.

YES OR NO

In Canada, genetically engineered food must be labelled only when it changes the
nutritional value or could pose a health risk to some people.

Should all genetically engineered foods be labelled?

Dial (416) 868-3900 with your yes or no by 10 a.m. tomorrow. Results on Tuesday.

CALENDAR

Dionne quintuplets (Marie, Emilie, Yvonne, Annette and Cecile), world's first
recorded surviving quintuplets, born at Corbeil, Ont., 1934.

Also birthdate of cartoonist Lynn Johnston, creator of For Better or For Worse,
at Collingwood, 1947.

*You Asked Us runs Tuesday through Friday. Call (416) 868-3900 to record your
questions and comments.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              408 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                    October 7, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

WESTLOCK'S NEEDS LOST IN FIGHT OVER NEW HOSPITAL

BYLINE: DON MARTIN, HERALD COLUMNIST, EDMONTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 535 words


WESTLOCK

Earth-movers are massaging the field into shape while pile-drivers ram down the
foundations for Alberta's most controversial public works project.

There are two reasons for the rush to get into the ground before freeze up and
get ahead of the political heat.

The sign says it all: Site of Westlock's Immaculata Hospital; Opening 1995.

This was Deputy Premier Ken Kowalski's election goodie to new voters in his
expanded riding. Now, despite public outrage and a barely contained mutiny
within government MLA ranks, Kowalski has delivered.

But lost in the ruckus is even the remote possibility that this project may have
a non-political reason to proceed.

If one exists, it sits four blocks away in the Immaculata Hospital that is being
replaced. To the casual observer there is an obvious observation this is one
ugly, old active treatment centre.

A few years ago the entire stucco exterior slipped to the ground. Inside, the
1968 addition is cramped, the 1948 wing sadly dilapidated and the original 1928
area almost uninhabitable.

Enema kits, catheters and other medical supplies are stored in corridors. In the
medical labs, a poster covers a ceiling leak and a towel absorbs water seeping
through the floor.

Washrooms are so tiny patients in distress have been trapped behind doors that
cannot be opened. One thermostat controls the temperature for the entire
hospital. Emergency arrivals at night must ring a bell so nurses can rush down
from their upstairs station to unlock the door.

"People see the floors are clean and they wonder what the problem is," fumes
Sister Florence James, the hospital's spunky executive director for 26 years.
"But this hospital has become very inconvenient for patients and extremely
inconvenient for staff."

Perhaps the most convenient option would be to ship patients to St. Albert some
40 minutes drive south or to Barrhead 30 minutes west, but James argues the trip
from outer communities served by Westlock would be stretched dangerously long.
She has a point. Would Calgarians endorse closing the Foothills Hospital if
Canmore was the next acute care centre down the road?

In any event, Westlock's problems go beyond the politics and personalities of
the legislature.

It is caught in a dilemma of being too expensive to restore, too antiquated to
maintain and, having earned kudos as Alberta's eighth best hospital in the
prompt discharge of patients, it is too good to be shut and scattered.

Yet, thanks primarily to Kowalski himself, Westlock's hospital became too
controversial to replace without being christened a payoff.

When he linked construction of this hospital to his re-election bid, it became a
test of his political influence.

That it took just three months to launch hospital construction in a Conservative
riding which had been delayed eight years in Grit territory confirmed the
influence.

That he rushed in the earth-movers on the eve of a $ 31-million slash in
hospital construction confirmed politics were at play.

But that the predominantly senior population of the Westlock area need access to
a better hospital has nothing to do with Ken Kowalski. That's a valid medical
treatment.



LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 16, 1998 Saturday

Ottawa hospital boss plays down PQ past  New administrator has 'no political
agenda'

BYLINE: BY KEVIN WARD With a report from André Picard in Montreal; CP STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A hospital administrator under pressure to resign because of his separatist past
defended his appointment yesterday by telling critics his politics aren't
relevant to his work.

The appointment of David Levine, who ran for the Parti Québécois almost 20 years
ago, has raised the sensitive question of whether his politics make him the
right choice to run the city's new amalgamated hospital.

The hospital board of directors and doctors say his past allegiance to the PQ
shouldn't disqualify him from running the city's biggest hospital.

"I have no political agenda here," Mr. Levine said in a news conference at the
Civic Hospital at which he gave an articulate and firm defence of his
professional ability.

Mr. Levine, who celebrated his 50th birthday yesterday, said he is an
experienced hospital manager who has had a long and successful career in Quebec
before his appointment last year as Quebec's envoy to New York. He was a member
of the PQ from 1975 to 1981.

He noted he has worked in Quebec's hospital system under PQ and Liberal
governments and politics has never been an issue in his work.

"The proof is in the pudding."

The controversy surrounding Mr. Levine's appointment was described in the
Commons by the Bloc Québécois as a witch-hunt.

"Isn't the government saying that the Charter of Rights does not apply to Quebec
sovereigntists or those who are suspected of being sovereigntists?" asked MP
Jocelyne Girard-Bujold, who accused the government of failing to come to Mr.
Levine's defence.

Don Boudria, government House leader, said hiring hospital administrators is not
the responsibility of the federal government.

Guy Bouthillier, president of the ultranationalist Société Saint-Jean-Baptiste,
said the attacks on Mr. Levine are shameful and should be of concern to
Quebeckers of all political stripes.

"In effect, once the intolerance machine gets rolling, there is no stopping it,"
he said. "Today, it's a sovereigntist being threatened outside our borders.
Tomorrow, it will be another sovereigntist, but this time within Quebec. And,
perhaps, one day, Quebec federalists?"

Mr. Levine's publicity has been a distraction. The Civic Hospital Foundation has
received calls from donors threatening to withdraw their financial support if he
remains.

Still, the new amalgamated hospital's board is convinced it has the right person
for the job.

"The political, religious and personal beliefs of the chief executive officer or
of any other member of the hospital staff at any level are not relevant in the
performance of his or her duties," said Nick Mulder, board chairman.

Mr. Mulder said he understands community concerns, and Mr. Levine's background
was reviewed, but it was determined to be irrelevant.

"We finally decided he is not a politician," he said. "In the final analysis, we
are hiring a top administrator."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 4, 2004

CLINTON HOSPITAL DASH FOR HEART BYPASS OP

BYLINE: Antonella Lazzeri in Los Angeles

LENGTH: 277 words


BILL Clinton faces bypass surgery after doctors found a blockage in his heart.

The shock condition was diagnosed after the former US President suffered chest
pains.

Clinton, 58, went to a hospital near his home in Westchester, New York, two days
ago complaining of pressure around his heart.

After a series of tests docs found a "serious blockage" and he was rushed to New
York's renowned Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.

Yesterday TV news channels reported that Clinton could be operated on within
days -with ABC saying he needed a QUADRUPLE bypass.

Clinton had earlier cancelled a two-day trip across upstate New York with his
senator wife Hillary, 56.

She was not at the Columbia with him when he was admitted but was expected to
arrive later with daughter Chelsea, 28. Hillary revealed doctors at the local
hospital initally found nothing wrong and sent him home.

But she said: "They did some additional tests and advised him to have bypass
surgery as soon as he could."

A family friend said Clinton had already had an angioplasty, an emergency
procedure in which surgeons insert a balloon into the artery to try to clear it.

Clinton told Democratic Party national chief Terry McAuliffe by phone he was
"fine" but confirmed that he did need a bypass.

The news stunned the nation. The ex-leader was seen at the Democratic convention
in Boston in July looking fit and healthy after dieting and working out.

Former White House counsel Jack Quinn said: "This is very shocking."

Clinton, impeached over his scandalous affair with Monica Lewinsky, has just
released memoirs of his time in office from 1993 to 2001.


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              411 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     November 29, 2016 Tuesday 4:32 PM GMT

Community urged to come together to fight to save Vale of Leven Hospital
services;
Members of Hospitalwatch appealed to 200 people who attended a public meeting to
rally outside the next health board meeting to help save the hospital.

BYLINE: By Marc McLean

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 900 words


The community must come together and lobby the Health Secretary in order to save
Vale of Leven Hospital.

That was the message from a public meeting in Dumbarton on Monday night aimed at
rescuing the birthing unit - and the few remaining services at the hospital.

Around 200 people who attended the meeting - including politicians, hospital
staff, pregnant women, and community campaigners - also agreed to organise a
rally outside the next health board meeting on December 20.

"If we lose maternity services it's a dagger through the heart of the hospital,"
warned Jim Moohan, chairman of campaign group Hospitalwatch.

"If you can't have a child at the hospital the health board will eventually ask,
'do we need a hospital there at all'?"

"The only people who can win this are yourselves."

Politicians on the panel stood united in opposition to plans to transfer all
births from the Vale to Paisley or Glasgow, as well as demanding a halt to other
cuts and a long term sustainable plan for the long suffering hospital.

Mr Moohan then called on people across the Vale, Dumbarton and beyond to write
to Health Secretary Shona Robison and get involved in a protest outside
Gartnavel Royal Hospital on December 20.

READ MORE: Vale Hospital midwives cleared after investigation into traumatic
birth

He said: "The only people that can win this is yourselves.

"With the democratic voice of the people - and the now unified political parties
working together as one - I'm quite sure we can stop the rot."

The meeting was held in the Concord Centre and was organised by Dumbarton MSP
Jackie Baillie in an attempt to form a united front and make a strong stand in
the face of more impending cuts by NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde.

The Labour politician was joined by speakers including West Dunbartonshire SNP
Group Leader, Councillor Jonathan McColl, Conservative MSP Maurice Corry from
Helensburgh, along with Hospitalwatch campaigners Rev Ian Miller and Jim Moohan.

Political rivalries were put to one side as all agreed that the Scottish
Government must act to stop Greater Glasgow and Clyde Health Board from
destroying the Vale Hospital.

Councillor Jonathan McColl said: "I don't care what particular rosette I wear
when I stand for election. I'm here to represent you in this area, not a
political party.

"If the Cabinet Secretary is not doing her job then I'm going to tell her and
hold her to account.

READ MORE: Councillors set to hold Health Secretary to account over Vale of
Leven Hospital

"She has said she's committed to the Vale. The problem is that we've got to make
sure she sticks to that."

Members of the public commented that they did not know which politicians to
trust, including Vale Hospital workers who expressed fears about its future.

Dumbarton woman Rose Harvie, a retired midwife, argued that the health board
have created a situation where women have to go elsewhere to give birth,
resulting in low birth numbers and an excuse to close the Vale's birthing
service.

She said: "Would you not agree that this is deliberate on the part of the health
board?

READ MORE: Health Secretary Shona Robison "snubs" meeting Alexandria hospital
campaigners

"The health board has deliberately, unnecessarily and deceitfully frightened
women by raising the risk criteria for giving birth when, in fact, their motive
is simply to save money."

Renton woman Sam Paton, who has long campaigned to protect services at the
hospital, suggested that the community should turn out in force at the next
health board meeting on December 20.

This was welcomed by the panel and Hospitalwatch members who had already planned
on staging a demonstration with banners.

MSP Jackie Baillie said: "At the end of the day this is about choice.

"Nobody is suggesting women should be coerced (into where they give birth), but
it is about choice.

READ MORE: Vale of Leven Hospital midwives: local births are "not sustainable"

"I could read you a list of midwife-led units across Scotland where they do have
the choice. That's what we want locally as well.

"What they are doing is cutting the service to save money. It's not about safety
because I asked them about that. It's about staff vacancies because I asked them
about that too.

"Coming tonight is important. Having your voice heard is most definitely
important because we can't do it by ourselves.

"The power comes from you. We will make sure the video recording taken tonight
is submitted to the Cabinet Secretary, to the First Minister, to the health
board, and the health council who provide the Cabinet Secretary with advice."

READ MORE: Dumbarton family join fight to save hospital after tragic death of
unborn baby

Urging people to write to Shona Robison, Ms Baillie said: "I want her to make
the decision. She made a promise to this area and she, I think, is our best
chance of keeping the services in this area.

"And let's all turn up on December 20 and make sure the health board understand
what this local community wants - which is services at the Vale, the maternity
unit at the Vale, and that they do not come for any other services."

The health board meeting is being held on Tuesday, December 20 from 9.30am at J
B Russell House, Gartnavel Royal Hospital in Glasgow.

Local people are also being encouraged to write to Shona Robison. The Health
Secretary's postal address is T3.03, The Scottish Parliament, Edinburgh, EH99
1SP and email address is CabSecHS@gov.scot

More Lennox Herald news.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

The terrible wait meets the eternal debate

SECTION: OPINION; Leaders; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 536 words


There is nothing simple about the funding of hospitals in this state, and
arguments about who bears primary responsibility for their situation are
threaded with distracting political invective. Around it goes, in circles, with
no answers offered.

Try explaining to the old and infirm, young children and the disadvantaged why
they must wait years for elective surgery. Try explaining why the pain they
endure and the uncertainty that plagues their daily lives are prolonged by
politicians who don't do what they promised. Victoria's Health Minister, David
Davis, cannot be allowed to buckpass the problems besetting this state's
hospitals to the federal government alone. This is his backyard, and the
Coalition promised before the 2010 state election that it would "slash waiting
lists".

To that end, it is simply offensive when Mr Davis resorts to political
point-scoring whenever he is forced to confront the reality of the state's
hospitals. On Tuesday, for example, Mr Davis took the cover of federal budget
day to quietly release a report by a three-person panel which examined the data
for waiting lists back in 2011. That report was handed to the government nine
months ago. Why the long wait, you might ask, especially as much of it is a
specialised discussion about categorising certain medical treatments and the
methods of collating appropriate data on how long patients wait from first
consultation to eventual treatment. But, never one to miss an opportunity, Mr
Davis infected it with political rhetoric, saying it offered a "clear stocktake
on Labor's performance in outpatients".

Well, it's 2\xC2&#189; years since your government came to power, Mr Davis, and
each month we get a clearer picture of how the Coalition's administration stacks
up. At March 31, 50,565 people were waiting for surgery that medical specialists
deem may not be urgent but still needs to be done. That is 10.4 per cent more
than a year ago, and well above the 40,000 the Coalition highlighted when it
came to power. The waiting list for elective surgery at the Royal Melbourne
Hospital rose 19 per cent year on year; it was up 11 per cent at the Royal
Children's Hospital; and there have been big increases too at the Royal Women's
Hospital, the Western Hospital in Footscray and Sunshine Hospital.

Changes in quarterly figures may be influenced by all sorts of issues, not just
funding constraints. Still, the lists are not coming down and that is
unacceptable for a state that prides itself on being the home for many of the
world's leaders in medical technology, research and surgical techniques.

Hospitals funding is simply inadequate. Without real increases in funding, as
opposed to the cutbacks the hospitals have endured, this state's health system
will deteriorate. Our population is ageing, and that means each year more people
will need medical services to keep them alive, manage complex health conditions
or alleviate chronic pain. Neither the Gillard nor the Napthine government seems
to grasp this. The inexorable demands on hospitals, coupled with the rising
costs of medical treatment, demand a higher level of immediate funding, and
commitments from federal and state governments to real increases in future
years.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             June 14, 2016 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Labor, Libs leave $60b health hole;
-Both parties refuse to reverse Hockey budget cut

BYLINE: Laura Tingle Political editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 841 words


Both sides of politics now face a hospital funding "black hole" of more than $50
billion - or will have to revisit lifting the goods and services tax - after
confirmation that neither the Coalition nor Labor has a plan to fund growing
hospital costs over the next decade, health experts say.

Labor's announcement on the weekend that its hospital plan would cover only the
next four years means that neither party has acknowledged the need to fund
growing hospital bills in a sustainable way in their budget figures over the
next 10 years.

There is an additional political liability for Labor in its decision as it has
promised its budget figures will improve over the decade. Its weekend
announcement suggests it will go to the election with a questionable bottom line
since it has said nothing on hospital funding beyond the four years of the
budget.

The Rudd and Gillard governments promised to share with the states the growing
cost of hospitals. They agreed to fund 50 per cent of the growth cost, a promise
that resulted in a $57 billion hit to the federal budget beyond 2016 that was
inherited by the Coalition in 2013.

The Abbott government rejected the suggestion that the federal government had a
responsibility to share the growing hospital bill. It claimed a $57 billion
saving to the 2014 budget - part of an overall saving of $80 billion by 2024-25,
which included cuts to the states for school funding. The move was widely seen
at the time as designed to force the states to agree to an increase in GST.

But the decision sparked an angry backlash among voters and attempts to broker a
deal on the goods and services tax ultimately foundered this year.

The Turnbull government brokered a deal with the states in April - to see it
through the election - in which it changed the funding formula for hospitals
from indexation to activity-based funding for the current four-year agreement.

But it has not said if it would be prepared to cover part of the forecast
increase in hospital costs with the states beyond the agreement.

While Labor has persistently attacked the Coalition for rejecting any
responsibility for hospital funding, its hospital funding agreement over the
weekend is also limited to four years, with a $2 billion top-up.

Health experts say Labor's original promise to take up 50 per cent of the
growing hospital bill - and the Coalition's complete rejection of the promise -
were both unrealistic and a compromise will have to eventually be found with the
states.

"There is now huge uncertainty about hospital funding," health economist Stephen
Duckett told The Australian Financial Review.

"All the states are building hospitals right now without having any commitment
from the federal government about whether it will help them fund them."

After the release of Labor's policy, health academic Stephen Leeder said: "We
are still waiting for a health policy.

"Nothing has come from either side about sustainable funding."

The decision by the two parties to support so-called activity-based funding was
the "first signs of working towards a compromise" in the future on hospital
funding, Professor Leeder said.

But the bigger question of how growing hospital costs would be resolved was
still to be determined - "whether that is through an increased GST or the
likelihood of the Commonwealth coming to the party with greater support", he
said.

Chris Richardson, of Access Economics, agreed, saying Australia was "having yet
another mathematically challenged election where the promises don't add up".

"Both sides of politics are now pretending the states will be able to fully fund
the growing hospital bill," he said.

"The missing element of the Pre-Election Economic and Fiscal Outlook is that it
assumes the federal-state funding trajectory contains no risks."

But he said it was "quite clear that state budgets won't be able to hold to the
diet they are on".

"Australia as a nation still has quite a big black hole," he said.

"You can argue whether it's a federal black hole or a state one but ultimately
it will be up to the federal government to fix."

An irony of the uncertainty about hospital funding is that the growth in
hospital costs has declined since the $57 billion figure was struck, meaning the
funding hole is not as large as it was in 2014.

However, there are no official estimates of what impact that decline in costs -
from about 7 per cent a year to as low as 5 per cent a year - has had on the
budget bottom line.

Despite their intense interest in an eventual funding deal, the states - having
secured an agreement with the Turnbull government in April that covers the next
four years - have generally been staying out of the federal election debate
about hospital funding.

After the Coalition announced the April $2.9 billion funding boost, South
Australian Premier Jay Weatherill said he was "very unhappy" because about 80
per cent of the Liberal health cut remained.

In a lukewarm endorsement of Labor's $2 billion weekend announcement, he said it
was "a welcomed improvement on the federal Liberal government's position".

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             October 8, 2004 Friday
                                 First Edition

Hospital trip scars Carr;
Premiers ELECTION 2004

BYLINE: Morgan Mellish

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 413 words


Politicians love to spend money. If they can't do that, they love to re-announce
they're spending money. Two or more bites at the cherry are better than one.

Apparently with that in mind, NSW Premier Bob Carr went to the knife-edge seat
of Eden-Monaro yesterday to re-announce an upgrade to the Batemans Bay
Hospital's emergency ward.

Health is a major issue in the Liberal-held seat in the state's south which has
changed hands with each government since 1972. Voters are worried about the
dilapidated hospitals, particularly in the coastal town of Batemans Bay, one of
the state's fastest growing regional areas.

But the visit by Mr Carr who is widely seen as an electoral liability because of
scandals in NSW's health and transport systems didn't go well with some locals.

"I accidentally met him in the corridor and he asked who I was," said Kevin
Harmey. "I said I'm the GP obstetrician that used to work here until you closed
[the maternity ward recently]. I think he was a bit taken aback.

"It wasn't a big thing. But I suppose it just signifies the underlying current
of discontent with medical services."

Mr Carr has done some campaigning in marginal seats during the campaign but,
overall, he has kept a fairly low profile. Far from being a boost to federal
Labor in key electorates such as Eden-Monaro and in those in Sydney's west, he
is widely seen as a neutral at best.

On top of the closure of the maternity ward which means expectant mothers have
to drive half an hour to Moruya there was another matter that didn't go
unnoticed.

When the $2.5 million upgrade was announced last September, it was meant to be
ready by the end of this year. Now it's slated for next October.

"This emergency ward should have been open soon and they haven't turned a sod,"
said local resident Hazel Morgan.

But government spokespeople denied the Premier was re-announcing the project,
claiming he was announcing more details.

They said Mr Carr's visit was originally scheduled for last week, and comments
last September by the Southern Area Health Service that the ward would open by
Christmas were "not accurate".

"[Country Labor candidate for Eden-Monaro] Kel [Watt] has made representations
to ensure we get on with the job and I'm glad to stand here today and report
that's exactly what we're doing," Mr Carr said.

But local Liberal MP Gary Nairn said: "The upgrade hasn't happened because
there's been constant money problems, but he re-announced it anyway, hoping the
locals had forgotten."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Carr bumped into trouble in Eden-Monaro. Photo: NICK MOIR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2004 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             August 22, 2016 Monday

Butchers in Karak violating official price list

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 233

LENGTH: 407  words


The social and political activists have expressed displeasure over the failure
of the district administration to implement the price list fixed by the price
review committee.

Talking to reporters on Sunday, Altaf Khattak, Zahid Usman, Rabnawaz and Asad
Zaman said the district administration had fixed price of beef at Rs280 per
kilogramme, but the butchers were selling it at Rs350. Similarly, the butchers
sold mutton at Rs650 to Rs700 despite the fact that its price was officially
fixed at Rs600 per kilogramme.

The activists said the butchers took the plea that as the prices of cattle had
increased they could not follow the rates fixed by the district administration.

They pointed out that traders had fixed rates of commodities on their own thanks
to non-implementation of the official price list. They demanded of the district
administration to pay surprise visits to the markets and punish the profiteers.

HOSPITAL LACKS FACILITIES: Tehsil Headquarters Hospital, Banda Daud Shah, is
facing shortage of doctors and other facilities.

This was stated by former representatives of local bodies and political workers
while addressing a press conference at Teri on Sunday. They pointed out that the
hospital had been facing shortage of doctors and other facilities since its
establishment in 1991.

They alleged that through fake OPD receipts it was showed that sufficient number
of patients visited the facility daily. They said the hospital building was
withering away due to lack of maintenance. The elders claimed that they had to
move to Kohat and other parts of the province even for routine laboratory tests.
They regretted that even drinking water facility was not available at the
hospital.

They said the hospital had no women medical officer, and demanded of the
government to provide seven medical and two women medical officers to the
hospital as per the sanctioned posts.

POLITICAL INTERFREENCE: Political interference should be discouraged in the
police department to make it serve the public in true sense.

This was stated by DSP Sadat Khan, the district police's resource person, while
delivering a lecture to a workshop held at Karak police station on Sunday under
the title of 'Police Ordinance, 2016'.

He said under the ordinance police would be purged of political interference to
make them people's servant. He asked the police officers to implement the
ordinance forthwith and adopt positive and decent attitude with the people.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                                Final_CC Edition

Liberals play politics on hospital expansion

BYLINE: Jonathan Fowlie, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA


The B.C. Liberal government's drive to make over Burnaby Hospital was concocted
by a trio of party operatives in an effort to unseat an NDP MLA, prop up a
potential B.C. Liberal candidate and win votes in other key ridings, a newly
leaked document reveals.

The three B.C. Liberal Party organizers sent a letter to government staff late
last year outlining a step-by-step strategy on how to use the hospital issue in
Burnaby for maximum political gain.

"Only Burnaby Hospital can deliver a new seat, (Burnaby) Deer Lake, taking out
(NDP MLA Kathy) Corrigan and helping us win two tight (swing ridings)," read the
three-page letter, which was obtained by the NDP and provided to The Vancouver
Sun.

The letter outlined an elaborate strategy referencing expected moves on the
hospital issue by MLA Corrigan, her husband Derek, the mayor of Burnaby, and
Kathy's sister, who is a doctor at the hospital.

"If Cathy (sic) and Derek Corrigan act first we will lose this issue and never
get it back. Anything we do at that point will be seen as reacting to the
efforts of Cathy Corrigan."

Moves by the B.C. Liberal government since that time show the strategy appears
to have been followed precisely, including an announcement in April by then
health minister Mike de Jong about a planning process for the hospital.

"In my mind, it just explains why this government has no credibility, and why
that credibility is so shot with the public," NDP health critic Mike Farnworth
said Thursday.

"When governments make decisions around infrastructure, it should be on the
basis of good solid public policy, not on the basis of, 'let's determine whether
or not it's a winning issue.'"

The letter was written by Pamela Gardner, who has served as a B.C. Liberal Party
riding president in Burnaby-Edmonds; Brian Bonney, who for five years worked as
the party's director of operations and now works within government as a
communications director; and Mark Robertson, the B.C. Liberal Party's director
of field operations.

The authors said they believe conditions in Burnaby Hospital are "much poorer"
than in any other in B.C., adding that on two floors "the stench of stale urine
is extremely strong."

The letter advised that Premier Christy Clark and others in government should
announce "ASAP" an intention to rebuild Burnaby Hospital, even if they aren't
able to make a firm commitment on any details.

"This would keep the issue ours without committing $$ and buy us time to do some
polling and confirm this is a winning issue," read the letter.

The letter also advised Clark to launch a community consultation committee on
the hospital, which the authors said should be led by Gardner as chair. They
also suggested that potential B.C. Liberal candidates Dr. David Yap, or Jeff
Kuah - neither of whom have publicly announced plans to run - be included on the
committee. Yap is an emergency room doctor at the hospital.

"(Clark) was born in the hospital. A (Clark) government delivering this will
dramatically help our chances in Deer Lake where the hospital resides," said the
letter, which made multiple references to the fact Clark was born in the
hospital.

"However, this hospital is an icon with all of Burnaby and it will surely help
us re-win (Burnaby) North and (Burnaby) Lougheed too," it continued.

"Once more, if we can introduce a second-generation Chinese doctor candidate for
Burnaby Deer Lake, to champion this issue, it would help us seal the deal."

On April 27 - roughly four months after the letter appears to have been written
- the B.C. Liberal government announced a "high-level master-planning process
for Burnaby Hospital to develop a clear vision for the expansion, improvement
and delivery of health services at Burnaby Hospital."

On the same day, the Burnaby Hospital Community Consultation Committee was
announced, chaired by Gardner, and including Yap.

Farnworth said that shows the process was purely political, and criticized the
letter's suggestion that the decision be made on the basis of polling.

"Frankly, I think it's a disgraceful way to do public policy," he said, adding
that he wonders whether the government would abandon the hospital issue if it
did not poll as a "winning issue."

Minister of Health Margaret MacDiarmid said she had not seen the letter until
Thursday, adding the relevant announcements at the hospital took place under the
former health minister. Nonetheless, MacDiarmid said she was not concerned by
what she saw.

"We have strong supporters in Burnaby who at the same time as they are really
supportive of us, they also really want this hospital redeveloped," she said.

"People are passionate. They're passionate about their politics and they're
passionate about their hospital," she said, adding that passion will have no
impact on the final decision at Burnaby Hospital.

"In spite of how passionate our supporters are, that does not impact on how
decisions are made about hospital capital," she said."Hospital planning will
happen through the Fraser Health Authority and with the capital people in the
ministry and in Treasury Board," she continued.

"That is not a political process. We're guided by experts."

A B.C. Liberal Party spokesman said neither Robertson nor the party would
comment on the matter, and Bonney did not return a call for comment.

In an email, Gardner said she is "very proud of the 100s of volunteer hours I
and the committee members put into this process."

Gardner added she believes the soon-to-be complete final report from her
consultation committee "will speak for itself."

jfowlie@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                    Wilkes Barre Times Leader (Pennsylvania)

                            October 22, 2006 Sunday

Let's value the way our veterans are treated at hospitals

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311 words


Enough on the Foley sex scandal. Everyone already knows what Foley did. All
President Bush had to call it is an unfortunate incident. Hastert is exceptional
taking responsibility for the consequences. Even as a political science major, I
always believed that the different political parties are supposed to keep each
other on their toes, to make sure each party is doing good things.

Where is all the friendly rivalry gone? In their political campaigns each
politician tries to talk about the family and family values, yet what values are
they showing the American youth with mud-slinging advertisements?

Speaking of family values, do the American people ever wonder what happened to
the veterans from World War II or Vietnam? How is the quality of their life 30,
50 years after the war? Knowing you only had a few years left on this earth, how
would you feel going to your local veterans hospital (with or without a
wheelchair) for medical help, only to overhear a professional making a joke
about body odor and being helpless to change this consequence?

Our veterans' hospitals are just like any place of business, including our
political system. They have good employees along with the few that don't belong
there. This is one business that needs someone like Hastert to take the
responsibility for the actions or lack of action from the few.

The news today is how Hastert changed course and took responsibility and about
how the House, Senate and Congress are taking more responsibility for what's
left of veterans from past wars and our future veterans?

They can start by implementing every view and estimate given for the fiscal year
2008, which was recently presented to committee members by National Commander
Paul A Morin. It would be a good, needed consequence for the past, present, and
future sacrifices of many for their service to our country.

P. Smith Duryea

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Wilkes Barre Times Leader
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday

Political activist among 5 victims of target killing

SECTION: Vol. XXIII No. 248

LENGTH: 430  words


At least five persons including an activist of a political party were killed and
several others injured in fresh spate of unabated target killing and road
accidents in different localities of the city on Monday. The police arrested
more than a dozen culprits including 10 extortionists during search operations
and raids and recovered arms from their possession.

According to details, in Yousaf Goth area of Sarjani Town unknown armed men
opened fire at two persons killing one on the spot and injuring another. The
deceased identified as Aadil Lashari, 32, and injured Munawar were activists of
a political party and were shifted to Civil Hospital for medico legal
requirements. The enraged protestors of the political party protested and also
ransacked in the hospital besides thrashing the staff. Sohaib, who was injured
during firing of unknown miscreants in Kharadar area, succumbed to his wounds in
Civil Hospital.

The police recovered bullet riddled dead body from Nazimabad No. 2. The body was
shifted to hospital for post-mortem where identity of the deceased was yet to be
ascertained.

Meanwhile, firing incidents continued in different areas of the city during
which eight persons were reported injured. The injured were rushed to different
hospitals of concerned areas.

A head constable was apprehended along with his three accomplices on charges of
looting and plundering in the city's main cattle market. Plain cloth law
enforcement agency personnel succeeded to arrest the group. The accused
confessed that they had looted at least 50 people who came out from cattle
Mandi. The police recovered weapons including 3 TT pistols, bullets, looted
money and others valuable from possession of the robbers. Accused robber police
head constable named Qamardin was a member of Madadgar 15 police force operating
in Korangi.

Two persons died and four others injured in separate road accidents in different
localities of the city. The first accident took placed in Liaquatabad area where
a reckless driven car hit a motorcycle killing one person on the spot while
injuring other and sped away. The body and injured were shifted to hospital
where according to hospital sources condition of the injured person was also
serious.

In yet another incident in Sukkhan area of Karachi a reckless driven good laden
truck rammed over four persons standing by roadside injuring them critically.
The truck driver managed to flee from the scene after accident. The rescue
personnel shifted the injured to hospital where one person succumbed to his
wounds while condition of others was also serious.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 14, 2004, Thursday

DIRTY;
 MRSA BUG 'KILLS 20,000 HOSPITAL PATIENTS A YEAR'

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 235 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEADLY: The superbug


HOSPITAL superbug MRSA kills 20,000 patients a year and cripples thousands,
campaigners claimed yesterday.

They said Department of Health figures, putting the number at 5,000, were a
decade out of date.

And the MRSA Support Group warned urgent action was needed to stop the death
toll rising still further.

Chairman Tony Field, 64, who was forced to give up his job after being left on
crutches by a hospital infection, said: "The Government is in a state of denial
over the whole matter and they ought to wake up and face the truth before they
can get matters right."

He added: "We call it 'the unnecessary infection' because if the hospitals were
clean the problem would be reduced enormously."

He also said doctors were not putting MRSA on death certificates. A Department
of Health spokeswoman said: "It is difficult to establish whether MRSA is the
cause of death as patients are often seriously ill with other conditions.

"However, we have made it clear that tackling hospital superbugs is a top
priority."

Labour MP John Lyons held a special Commons debate about improving hospital
cleanliness.

He said cleaners working for private firms should be axed, with senior nurses
put in charge of cleaning staff to make sure the job is done properly.

But Liberal Democrat health spokesman Paul Burstow added: "When it comes to
fighting MRSA, this Government is in the dark."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.


                              420 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                    October 17, 2001 Wednesday Final Edition

Nurses to walk out for 24 hours

BYLINE: DANIELLE CRONIN,

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 370 words


Health Reporter Canberra Hospital nurses' decision to walk off the job tomorrow
for 24 hours was illegal, an election stunt and endangered patients, Health
Minister Michael Moore said.

Australian Nursing Federation ACT secretary Colleen Duff announced, in a
statement, that members would strike from 7am tomorrow to 7am on Friday to
protest against the 'incompetence of the ACT Government and management to
provide a safe working environment which impacts on [Canberra Hospital] nurses
and patients'.

Mr Moore said the 'wildcat strike' was called to score political points two days
before the ACT election.

'There is absolutely no way the union can claim that this action is separate
from this political party [the Nurses Good Government Party],' he said.

'This union and this political party are breaking the law and they may do
serious harm to the health of patients in our community.'

Mr Moore said the existing enterprise agreement and an Industrial Relations
Commission ruling in September prohibited 'wildcat' strikes.

Hospital management and the union were scheduled to meet in the commission at
2pm today in a last-ditch effort to avert the strike.

Canberra Hospital chief executive Ted Rayment said he hoped to prevent the
nurses' industrial action, but his first priority was the Canberra community's
safety. Hospital management had devised contingency plans including requesting
assistance from Calvary Hospital, encouraging patients to seek treatment at
Calvary's emergency department, or from their local doctors if appropriate, and
appealing for patience if the strike went ahead.

But the situation could be exacerbated if the NSW Health Department fails to
stop more than 24,000 nurses walking off the job to protest against staff
shortages.

The strike will affect services at 142 NSW public hospitals and state-run
community centres from 7am to 4pm tomorrow, coinciding with the strike action in
the ACT.

Mr Rayment said patients in neighbouring NSW centres were usually referred to
Canberra Hospital.

The Canberra Times made repeated unsuccessful attempts yesterday to contact ANF
ACT secretary Colleen Duff and Nurses Good Government Party president Robyn
Staniforth.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 The Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty
                                    Limited


                              421 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                             August 3, 1997, Sunday

GIANT COLUMBIA/HCA AGGRESSIVE IN POLITICS

BYLINE: ALAN JUDD Ledger Tallahassee Bureau

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 756 words


TALLAHASSEE -- When Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. decided to support state Rep.
Dave Bitner's re-election campaign in early 1996, it didn't let Florida's $ 500
limit on political contributions get in the way.

On Jan. 15, 1996, the nation's largest hospital chain delivered six checks of $
500 each to Bitner, R-Port Charlotte: one from each of its Florida divisions, a
total of $ 3,000.

The donations were part of the $ 7,000 that Columbia and affiliated political
action committees gave Bitner's successful 1996 campaign -- and part of the $
299,296 that the company spent trying to elect its preferred Florida legislative
candidates last year.

Because each of its Florida divisions has a separately organized political
action committee, Columbia's multiple contributions to Bitner and to other
candidates were perfectly legal -- even though each PAC has the same treasurer,
who signs all the checks, and three PACs have the same address in Miami Lakes
while two others share one Tallahassee post office box.

Spokesmen for Columbia did not answer telephone messages Friday. Neither did
Bitner.

Regardless, the means it has used to help legislative candidates illustrate the
fact that Columbia, the focus of a massive federal criminal investigation into
Medicare fraud, is as aggressive and as competitive, in the political arena as
it is in acquiring and running hospitals.

Only one other entity -- Associated Industries of Florida, whose members include
hundreds of corporations big and small -- gave more to Florida legislative
candidates last year, according to records at the state Division of Elections.

And Columbia's total dwarfed that of any other health care contributor even the
traditional leader, the Florida Medical Association.

As a result, "the perception is that they're a big gorilla," said a lobbyist for
a competing health care group. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he
didn't want to risk offending Columbia.

The money, the lobbyist added, "buys some great access."

Tony Carvalho, a lobbyist for Florida's not-for-profit hospitals, which are
among Columbia's most fierce competitors, added: "Columbia is a very politically
involved corporation. They are active in the political process. They can make
and have made large political contributions. That obviously gets a lot of
influence."

Interest in Columbia's political activity was piqued by the indictments last
week of three company executives on charges that they conspired to defraud the
federal government through false Medicare billings at the Columbia-owned Fawcett
Memorial Hospital in Port Charlotte.

So far, at least, there has been no indication that federal prosecutors are
looking into Columbia's efforts to influence elected officials.

Nevertheless, the federal inquiry has raised eyebrows in Tallahassee, where
Columbia has employed as many as two dozen lobbyists at a time while spreading
donations among a broad spectrum of politicians.

"Obviously, I have cause for concern about the whole Columbia situation, as
everybody does," said state Rep. George Albright, R-Ocala, chairman of the House
Health Care Services Committee.

Albright, who received $ 2,000 from Columbia and an affiliate last year, said
the company's money had not influenced him --"not any more than anybody else's."

But more than most, perhaps, Columbia has insinuated itself into legislators'
psyches, not just through campaign contributions but also through personal
business dealings with numerous lawmakers.

The $ 299,296 that Columbia donated in 1996 -- a substantial increase from the $
216,676 it gave during the 1994 elections --went to Democrats and Republicans,
incumbents and challengers.

Of the 129 candidates who received Columbia money, all but 11 were elected.

Columbia's six Florida political action committees spent a total of $ 180,250,
including $ 8,500 in contributions to the Florida Democratic Party and $ 27,500
to the Republican Party of Florida.

The Florida Hospital League PAC, which is mostly funded by Columbia, gave
another $ 54,750. And the league's Health Care Leadership PAC, also funded
largely by Columbia, contributed $ 64,296, more than a third of it to the
Republican party.

Lawmakers insist Columbia exerts no undue influence, despite its political and
business ties to so many legislators.

"Has their money been a good investment for them?" asked Albright, the House
health care chairman.

"I can't think of a single thing that's been done in the Legislature for
Columbia."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 1997 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


                              422 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Northern Star and Rural Weekly

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday

Hospital failures ring no bells for politicians

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 240  words


'BELLS toll for aging hospital'.

It was our front page headline on March 6. The story referred to patients at
Lismore Base Hospital ringing brass bells to summon nurses in one section after
the failure of the electric buzzer system.

Three weeks later we've learned the system hasn't been fixed and is still
putting patients' lives at risk.

The latest revelation to rock the hospital relates to an 87-year-old war veteran
who was forced to dial 000 from his hospital bed because he couldn't get the
attention he required.

Kevin Park said he felt like he had been 'treated like a dog' after waking in
the middle of the night with his chest covered in liquid.

Although he raised an overworked nurse once with his brass bell, he was left
alone in his bed for another three quarters of an hour and flew into a panic.

He dialled his wife's number with his mobile phone and then called 000 in a
desperate attempt to get help.

It's worth repeating. This patient was in hospital and called 000 for help.

How low do we go before we do something about our failing hospital system?

The nurses buzzers don't work, one lift is out of action and much of the
equipment is past its use by date.

Our two political leaders held a debate about health on Tuesday, so did our
local political candidates.

But the time for debating is long gone. Most fair-minded people just want
governments of all political persuasions to stop talking about it and actually
do something.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LNS


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              423 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            February 6, 1994, Sunday

Crystal ball shows GOP in our future

BYLINE: By Elliott Brack

SECTION: EXTRA; Section J; Page 13

LENGTH: 559 words


These last few Sundays we've been gazing into a crystal ball, giving you our
projections concerning the future. We've talked about the Gwinnett County
airport and about the possibility of a big Atlanta hospital running the Gwinnett
Hospital System.

Today here's another gaze into the future, one more political. Let's look at a
future governor's race, though what year is hard to say. The immediate question
might be: Is it possible we're addressing the 1994 governor's race?

Gwinnett County might serve as a beacon, or warning bell (depending on your
viewpoint) about what might happen in Georgia when it comes to a race for
governor.

Following the 1984 General Election, perhaps the most surprised people in all of
Gwinnett County were the candidates of the Republican Party. They all won. We
suspect few actually had thought that they had much chance of victory against
the previously entrenched Democratic Party candidates.

But in 17 of 18 slots, the Republicans won. The 18th race could have gone to the
GOP that year, too, but they did not field a candidate for probate judge.

Ever since 1984, Gwinnett has solidly lined up in the GOP column. It's to the
point that some people who might otherwise run as Democrats now cloak themselves
as Republicans, in order to have a chance of winning. Democrats have essentially
struck out in every local race in Gwinnett since 1984. That party is dragging
bottom.

Gwinnett voters have also given statewide GOP candidates good support. In the
1990 General Election in Gwinnett, Johnny Isakson polled 51,755 votes, compared
to 40,307 for Zell Miller.

Georgia voters have not as readily embraced the GOP as have Gwinnett residents.
The state is still considered relatively solidly Democratic, with that party
having the governor, control of the Legislature, one U.S. senator and seven of
11 U.S. representatives from the Democratic side.

Yet one Wednesday morning some November day in the future, while Democrats have
been asleep at the switch, Georgians are going to awaken and find a Republican
elected governor.

It may happen sooner than we think. For instance, in the 1990 General Election,
while Miller and Democrats stayed in power, there were quite a few Republican
votes cast for Isakson for governor.

Miller won with 53 percent of the vote. Isakson finished second with 44 percent
of the vote, and the candidate of the Libertarian Party scored 3 percent.

In actual numbers, Miller polled 717,234 votes, while Isakson garnered 590,252,
a difference of 126,982 votes. To show you how close the vote was, the
difference in the Democratic and Republican vote for governor is only 4.7
percent of the total vote cast. If 64,000 had voted for Republicans, Isakson
would now be your governor.

Take this one step further. The increase in the registered voters in three
counties - Cobb, Cherokee and Gwinnett - could heavily benefit the Republican
Party, which now controls all three counties.

Between the 1990 and 1994 General Elections, it's possible that another 100,000
voters may be newly registered in these three counties alone. With a good GOP
turnout, that could wipe out the 64,000-vote victory by the Democrats in the
1990 governor's race.

The crystal ball says: Power is shifting toward Republicans in Georgia. And, as
Gwinnett has shown, this shift often can come quite suddenly.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH940400156

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              424 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                     May 21, 1997, Wednesday, EARLY EDITION

Hospitals won't be slashed

BYLINE: ROBERT WALKER, CALGARY HERALD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 537 words


A government-approved plan to save Alberta's major psychiatric hospitals from
being slashed to half their present size was attacked Tuesday as political
patronage and a move back to the dark ages of mental health.

"It flies in the face of mental health reform across North America, which
emphasizes services within the home community. And that does not mean large
psychiatric hospitals," said Ron LaJeunesse, executive director of the Canadian
Mental Health Association, Alberta division.

LaJeunesse attacked the plan to keep Alberta Hospital, Edmonton, and Alberta
Hospital, Ponoka, at their combined size of 800 beds as political patronage
because provincial Health Minister Halvar Jonson's riding includes Ponoka.

"At its best, it is a difference in philosophy. At its worst, it is political
patronage to serve the economy of central Alberta," said LaJeunesse.

Jonson was unavailable for comment.

Alberta Health spokesman Garth Norris described the patronage accusation as
"nonsense." He said Jonson is committed to a measured approach to reforming
mental-health services to make sure there is no disruption of services to
clients.

The big hospitals could eventually be cut back when a detailed plan is ready.

"You don't close beds and put people on to the street until the community
programs are in place," said Norris.

The recommendation to keep the two Alberta hospitals at their full size comes in
the Provincial Mental Health Advisory Board business plan, approved by Jonson
Tuesday. The board is responsible for mental-health services across the
province.

The plan, not yet released but obtained by the Herald, undertakes to "ensure
that there are no major changes to provincial institutional mental health
program beds in the near future."

This runs counter to the recommendations of the Provincial Mental Health Board,
which Jonson scrapped last August and replaced with the less-powerful advisory
board. The earlier board proposed slashing the 800-inpatient beds by 50 per cent
and distributing the money saved to regional health authorities such as Calgary.

The Calgary Regional Health Authority was hoping to get up to $ 20 million to
bring its mental-health services into line with Edmonton's.

The business plan talks about increasing community-based funding provincewide by
$ 2.8 million this year, which LaJeunesse says "isn't going to cut it." It is
far less than the $ 13.4 million proposed by the previous board, of which he was
executive director. "That money is simply going to go to maintaining the
existing system. I wouldn't expect anything in it for Calgary in the near
future."

Senior Calgary health professionals claimed in a Herald special report Monday
and Tuesday that Calgary is seriously under-funded for its mental-health
services compared to Edmonton.

"On the mental health side there have been some inequities," Norris agreed
Tuesday. He explained the new business plan recommends more equitable funding
for community mental health services based on the population size of different
regions.

Nancy Reynolds, executive director, and Betty Schoenhofer, chairwoman of the
mental health advisory board, did not return calls from the Herald.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: JONSON: Committed

               Copyright 1997 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                     May 21, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Mental hospitals stay intact

BYLINE: ROBERT WALKER, CALGARY HERALD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 536 words


A government-approved plan to save Alberta's major psychiatric hospitals from
being slashed to half their present size was attacked Tuesday as political
patronage and a move back to the dark ages of mental health.

"It flies in the face of mental health reform across North America, which
emphasizes services within the home community. And that does not mean large
psychiatric hospitals," said Ron LaJeunesse, executive director of the Canadian
Mental Health Association, Alberta division.

LaJeunesse attacked the plan to keep Alberta Hospital, Edmonton, and Alberta
Hospital, Ponoka, at their combined size of 800 beds as political patronage
because provincial Health Minister Halvar Jonson's riding includes Ponoka.

"At its best, it is a difference in philosophy. At its worst, it is political
patronage to serve the economy of central Alberta," said LaJeunesse.

Jonson was unavailable for comment.

Alberta Health spokesman Garth Norris described the patronage accusation as
"nonsense." He said Jonson is committed to a measured approach to reforming
mental-health services to make sure there is no disruption of services to
clients.

The big hospitals could eventually be cut back when a detailed plan is ready.

"You don't close beds and put people on to the street until the community
programs are in place," said Norris.

The recommendation to keep the two Alberta hospitals at their full size comes in
the Provincial Mental Health Advisory Board business plan, approved by Jonson
Tuesday. The board is responsible for mental-health services across the
province.

The plan, not yet released but obtained by the Herald, undertakes to "ensure
that there are no major changes to provincial institutional mental health
program beds in the near future."

This runs counter to the recommendations of the Provincial Mental Health Board,
which Jonson scrapped last August and replaced with the less-powerful advisory
board. The earlier board proposed slashing the 800-inpatient beds by 50 per cent
and distributing the money saved to regional health authorities such as Calgary.

The Calgary Regional Health Authority was hoping to get up to $ 20 million to
bring its mental-health services into line with Edmonton's.

The business plan talks about increasing community-based funding provincewide by
$ 2.8 million this year, which LaJeunesse says "isn't going to cut it." It is
far less than the $ 13.4 million proposed by the previous board, of which he was
executive director. "That money is simply going to go to maintaining the
existing system. I wouldn't expect anything in it for Calgary in the near
future."

Senior Calgary health professionals claimed in a Herald special report Monday
and Tuesday that Calgary is seriously under-funded for its mental-health
services compared to Edmonton.

"On the mental health side there have been some inequities," Norris agreed
Tuesday. He explained the new business plan recommends more equitable funding
for community mental health services based on the population size of different
regions.

Nancy Reynolds, executive director, and Betty Schoenhofer, chairwoman of the
mental health advisory board, did not return calls from the Herald.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: JONSON: Committed

               Copyright 1997 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     September 13, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Political parties trade charges while chikunngunya cases rise in Delhi

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 476  words


New Delhi, Sep 13 (IBNS): Chikungunya cases in Delhi has risen to over 1,000
this season,marking a jump of nearly 90% from its count last week, according to
media reports.

On Monday, a 65-year old man from Ghaziabad died of chikungunya at New Delhis
Ganga Ram Hospital, the first victim of the vector-borne disease in the national
capital, according to media reports. One suspected chikungunya death has also
been reported at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), but
hospital authorities have not yet confirmed it, reported ND TV on Monday. Zee
News on Tuesday posted: As per reports, two more people have succumbed to
chikungunya at Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi on Tuesday, taking the toll to three
this year. The increase in vector-borne diseases such as chikungunya and dengue
has led to an increase in the number of patient admissions in public and private
hospitals, which are running out of beds, according to reports. Some hospitals
have also said that with doctors and other staff affected, they are also running
out of manpower, which is also aggravating the situation. Meanwhile, political
parties are trading charges over the spread of chikungunya , dengue and malaria
in the national capital. Tweeted Sharmistha Mukherjee of Congrerss, CM in
Bangalore, Health Minster in Goa....Delhi Bhagwan bharose! Chief minister Arvind
Kejriwal is away for throat surgery in Bengaluru while Aam Aadmin Partys (AAPs)
Health Minister Sayendar Jain is away in Goa to oversee the partys preparations
for next years state assembly elections, media reported. When asked about the
absence of the Health Minister in Delhi, Kejriwal pointed out that Delhis
Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung is not in the capital either, reported NDTV. In
a pointed reference to the ongoing spat between the Delhi government and LG
Najeen Jung, Kejriwal tweeted o Tuesday, CM n min left wid no power now, even to
buy a pen. LG n PM enjoy all powers wrt Del. LG abroad.Question them for Del. LG
Najeeb Jung is in the US. AAP is not doing anything in Delhi but only indulging
in blame game, said Mukherjee. Manish Sisodia, deputy chief minister and the man
in charge of Delhi during Kejriwals 10-day visit to Bengaluru, is also away in
Finland for an education programme, reported NDTV. Talking to the media,
Sharmistha Mukherjee also said, Everything standstill owing to conflicting
politics. AAP always has been blaming the others- central or opposition or
media. Mr Kejriwals attention is not in Delhi anymore. Kapil Mishra of AAP
blamed the BJP-dominated Municipal Corporation of Delhi or MCD, asking where the
mayor has disappeared, media reported. Union Minister of Health and Family
Welfare, J P Nadda has said the union government is monitoring the situation on
daily basis and there is no need to panic. have asked the MCD to take necessary
steps, he said on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2016 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                                 First Edition

Queue here for fully sick local hospitals

BYLINE: John Breusch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1404 words


Whoever wins the battle over health reform, local communities and doctors may
end up having more say - and most in the system like that idea, writes John
Breusch.

Just a few months ago, senior figures in the health sector were lamenting that
their pet topic seemed all but forgotten in the political debate.

They needn't have worried.

As Labor leader Kevin Rudd continues his week-long tour of the nation's health
system, the Howard government seems to pull a new policy out of its sleeve every
day.

In a bizarre piece of political symmetry, both major parties this week announced
policies on a subject that is hardly at the centre of the political debate:
assisting children with autism.

The coalition said it had been gazumped by Labor. Rudd said it was a case of
great minds thinking alike.

But if there's one issue sure to get the public's blood boiling, it's the state
of public hospitals.

Australia may have one of the world's best health systems, but the country's
hospitals seem to lurch from one scandal to another. Last week it was the Royal
North Shore Hospital in one of Sydney's most affluent regions where a woman
miscarried in a toilet because of long queues in the emergency ward.

And hospitals just happen to be the one part of the health system not managed by
the federal government.

On Tuesday, federal Health Minister Tony Abbott announced a re-elected Howard
government would make its $10 billion-a-year funding of public hospitals
conditional upon the states agreeing to hand over management of each facility to
a community board.

It came as Rudd was touting his policy to spend $2 billion sorting out the
inefficiencies of the combined state-federal funding of public hospitals - with
the threat of a federal takeover if the states don't lift their game.

At face value, the public is being presented with two very different approaches
to fix what is again being called "the hospitals crisis".

Whereas the coalition believes the solution lies in handing more power to local
communities, Labor wants better national co-ordination.

Like his recent proposal to return nurse training to hospitals rather than
universities, Abbott's plan has much support from the medical community.

If the public is angry about below-par treatment or long queues in emergency
departments, doctors are every bit as fed up that their capacity to care for
patients is hamstrung by the seemingly impenetrable bureaucracy running the
hospitals sector.

The president of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, Andrew Sutherland,
says he sometimes questions which is a bigger priority for hospital
administrators: managing patients' health or managing their budgets. As a
result, it's a common frustration for surgeons to turn up to theatre only to
discover their operating lists have been cancelled because hospitals don't want
to pay their part of the costs.

"We think that in general the medical profession's opinion is not being sought,"
he says.

"We think there's an awful lot of money spent that doesn't seem to be getting
down to surgeons in operating theatres."

It's hard to find anyone in the medical community who opposes giving communities
- which include local doctors - a greater say in how hospitals are run.

The only question is whether Abbott's is the best way to go.

Stephen Leeder, the director of Sydney University's Australian Health Policy
Institute, says he welcomes any proposal that gives the community a voice in the
running of the health system.

But he questions whether individual boards for each hospital is the right way to
go.

After all, what community wouldn't want the best doctors, equipment and
facilities.

"If you've got every hospital competing in regard to everything, you have a real
problem on your hands," Leeder says.

That is, a hospitals system needs some level of co-ordination.

That was the chief criticism of the government's decision to take control of
Tasmania's Mersey Hospital in the marginal seat of Braddon. As part of an
island-wide health plan, the state Labor government had decided that Mersey
should be downgraded to a day facility.

Some locals complained that patients needing more complicated procedures would
have to head 45 minutes away to Burnie.

But others contend that by maintaining Mersey as a community run, full-service
hospital, Howard had dangerously meddled with the state's health plan.

Not only would his intervention raise demand for scarce health professionals, it
would also mean a small hospital would end up carrying out major procedures that
would be better done in hospitals that service a greater population and
therefore are more familiar with complicated cases.

Leeder says that while Abbott's call for community input is good, he probably
has got the unit wrong. What's needed is the right balance between bottom-up
community input and top-down co-ordination.

Leeder believes such a system may already be in place in Victoria, where
community boards oversee the operation of so-called hospitals networks.

Abbott himself commended the Victorian model yesterday, saying it helped explain
why that state's hospitals performed better than ones in NSW.

Asked why he was proposing to replace Victoria's health networks with local
boards running every hospital, he replied: "I'm not against sensible
co-ordination of service delivery but every hospital should have its own board."

Abbott insists the co-ordination role of government is overstated.

"For some reason [people] think in health we have to have all these
co-ordinators. The co-ordinators are the problem, not the solution," he tells
The Australian Financial Review.

"The best people to co-ordinate things are GPs, practice nurses and ultimately
patients themselves. They don't need bureaucrats to co-ordinate services, they
need good services."

That's why he's advocating a national replication of the Mersey model - only
without the direct federal funding.

But that raises another question.

If the hospital system is to be run by lots of individual, community boards,
what's the point of having the states involved at all?

It's a question a Rudd government could face. Labor's approach has three stages.

First, it will spend $2 billion on measures to take the pressure off hospitals -
things such as improving access to community-based health clinics or providing
transitional facilities for elderly patients who otherwise would be taking up
hospitals beds.

Second, it would set up a commission to work out ways to overcome the
inefficiencies that result from a health system funded partly by the
commonwealth and partly by the states.

And third, if the states don't lift their game by mid-2009, a federal Labor
government would seek community approval - such as through an election or a
plebiscite - for the commonwealth to take control of state-run public hospitals.

Not only is it a big "if", but Labor hasn't said what form this takeover would
take.

But as Labor health spokeswoman Nicola Roxon reiterates, the idea isn't for the
commonwealth to run public hospitals. Rather, it's to cut the states out of the
picture by making the federal government the sole funder of the hospitals
system.

So who would run the hospitals?

The champion of the so-called single-funder model, former federal Department of
Health secretary Andrew Podger, has proposed dividing the country into 20 or 30
regional health authorities, with the possibility of even smaller units
depending on community needs.

Using funding provided directly by the federal government, each authority would
buy not just hospital services for the region but everything - GPs, specialists,
aged and community care.

Podger proposes the operations of the regional authority would be overseen by an
advisory board of health professionals, community representatives and perhaps
even local governments officials.

Abbott's proposal involves a far more hands-on, executive-style board,
accountable to the community and responsible for appointing the hospital's chief
executive. But such a board would still be constrained by the budget allocated
by the state health department.

As much as Abbott believes community representatives would be lining up to serve
on a such a board, the events of recent weeks might give them second thoughts.

NSW Health Minister Reba Meagher is struggling under the extraordinary political
pressure that only a hospital crisis can create.

A former advocate of a Podger-style federal takeover, Abbott has since changed
his tune.

It's not hard to understand why.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Kevin Rudd has vowed to take over hospitals if states don't
improve but Tony Abbott and John Howard have gone further, promising local
control.Photos: AAP, BRENDAN ESPOSITO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2007 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              428 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 21, 1998 Thursday

Ottawa hospital battle explodes  Harris starts unity chain reaction

BYLINE: With a report from Canadian Press.; STAFF CP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1050 words


The fight over the selection of a former Parti Québécois candidate as head of a
new Ottawa hospital grew from a local controversy into a full-blown
national-unity incident yesterday.

Ontario Premier Mike Harris set off a chain reaction when he told a radio
interviewer that a non-Canadian who believed in the unity of the country would
be preferable to David Levine, who was a PQ candidate in a 1979 by-election.

The comments drew quick responses from federalists, who fear the controversy
could undermine the progress made in national-unity efforts since Jean Charest
became leader of the Quebec Liberal Party.

"In Canada, political considerations are not a question that we ask for
employment," Prime Minister Jean Chrétien said in Rome, where he is on a trade
mission. "We look at the qualities of the person to serve."

Quebec Premier Lucien Bouchard, on a visit to Chicago, called on Ottawa
residents to calm down. "I am as surprised as many people to see this outburst
of intolerance. I count on the good sense and democratic values of our fellow
citizens in Ottawa to lower the tone and recognize what counts in all of this is
competence."

Mr. Levine, a Montrealer who was sought out by an executive search firm to be
the chief executive officer of the new Ottawa Hospital, was named to the
$300,000-a-year job May 1 and is to begin work in July. He is currently the
Quebec government's agent-general in New York.

From 1992 until 1997, he was the CEO of Montreal's Notre Dame Hospital, and for
the preceding decade was director of the Verdun Hospital. Before becoming a PQ
candidate (and losing by more than 20,000 votes), he worked as an aide to
Bernard Landry, then Quebec's economic development minister and now Deputy
Premier.

Yesterday, Mr. Harris sought to distance himself from Mr. Levine's appointment,
while sovereigntists tried to take advantage of the outrage and federalists
appealed for tolerance.

"Both [Health Minister] Elizabeth Witmer and I have said, given [Mr. Levine's
political] background, if that's what he still believes in, he wouldn't have
been our first choice," Mr. Harris said. "Surely there is administrative
capability within Ontario, or at least within a Canadian or even a non-Canadian
who believes in Canada and keeping Canada together."

Mr. Harris also indicated he would not intervene in the Ottawa Hospital's choice
of Mr. Levine. "This is a decision that is made by the hospital board. It is not
our decision."

In Ottawa Tuesday night, 200 people showed up at a public meeting to denounce
Mr. Levine's appointment, accuse him of treason, and demand the resignation of
the board of directors of the new Ottawa Hospital (formed by the merger of the
city's Civic, Riverside and General Hospitals).

The meeting was meant for the board to hear the views of residents, but any
thought of it being a forum for calm discussion vanished quickly.

As the board members filed in, the crowd began shouting and chanting, "Resign!
Resign!"

When one person shouted that he heard the sound of jackboots, the crowd
responded by singing O Canada.

"It is unacceptable for a separatist to be CEO of the Ottawa Hospital," audience
member Norma Heathcote said. "Separatism is treason."

"Why do we have to go outside the province [for the hiring]?" asked Nancy
Schroeder, arguing that a Quebec hospital would not hire someone from Ontario.
"It's Ontario taxpayers' dollars -- it should be an Ontario taxpayer who is
hired."

The angriest people were predominantly elderly, and many who expressed their
fury pointed out that they were Second World War veterans who had fought for
their country.

Liberal MP Mauril Bélanger, former Ottawa mayor Marion Dewar and a small number
of people in the crowd expressed support for the hospital board, and their
disgust at the tone of the meeting.

"I'm ashamed and I'm appalled and I'm very, very angry," said Brenda Cooper. "I
implore you not to dismiss Mr. Levine on the basis of his political opinions.
His politics are his own business."

She was greeted by shouts of, "No! No! No way!"

Alan Robinson told the crowd that he went to Montreal for a liver transplant at
St-Luc Hospital when it was under Mr. Levine's supervision as part of Notre Dame
hospital. Mr. Robinson said he was cared for by federalists, sovereigntists,
Christians, Buddhists, anti-abortion, pro-choice, straight and gay people.

"Not once did I ever feel that I was ever given anything but the best of care. I
owe my life to that hospital," he said. "If he and his board can bring that kind
of care to the Ottawa Hospital, I say, Mr. Levine, welcome aboard."

Members of the board refused to comment yesterday, saying they wanted to take
the day to reflect on the raucous public meeting before making an announcement
on Mr. Levine's future today or tomorrow.

Mr. Levine, 50, told a news conference last week that he has no political
agenda. A member of the PQ from 1975 to 1981, he has not commented on his
current political allegiance.

Federal Intergovernmental Affairs Minister Stéphane Dion yesterday called the
hostile reaction to Mr. Levine's appointment "inexcusable."

Mr. Landry saw the incident as an attack on Quebec as a nation.

"It is illustrating, in an absolute way, that there are two nations -- there is
ours and then there is the other," the Deputy Premier said. "The message [Mr.
Harris] is sending to Canada and to Quebec resembles one of profound division
between two nations who must learn to respect one another for what they are,
meaning two different nations."

Quebec federalists fear comparisons with the incident that took place in
Brockville, Ont., during the 1990 debate over the Meech Lake accord, in which a
small group of elderly citizens walked over the Quebec flag, triggering
widespread nationalist sentiment among francophones.

Mr. Charest acted swiftly yesterday, telephoning Mr. Harris, Ms. Witmer and the
chairman of the Ottawa Hospital's board, Nick Mulder, urging them to resist
pressure to have Mr. Levine removed.

Mr. Mulder, who was deputy minister of environment when Mr. Charest held that
portfolio in the Brian Mulroney government, told him the hiring would not be
reconsidered.

"I spoke on several occasions to the hospital board's president," Mr. Charest
said yesterday. "They haven't changed their minds. And what we hope is that they
do not change course."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      May 19, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

No politics, board warns Levine

BYLINE: THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: CITY; Pg. C1 / Front


David Levine, who will become administrator of the Ottawa Hospital on July 31,
and Nick Mulder, chairman of the amalgamated hospital board, spoke with the
Citizen's editorial board last Friday. While the hospital board admits they
never asked Mr. Levine if he was still a separatist, the board has warned Mr.
Levine if he becomes involved in politics, he will be fired. The following is an
excerpt from that interview:

Citizen: Mr. Levine, you said that for credibility reasons -- and I think I
understand what you're saying -- you are reluctant to tell us what your current
political opinions are. Did you describe your current political beliefs to the (
hospital) board or to the group that was talking to you about ...

Nick Mulder: No.

David Levine: No.

Citizen: No?

Levine: I described ...

Citizen: The board never asked you: what do you believe now?

Levine: No, and I would not have answered the board, if the board said to me,
you know, are you this political -- I explained what I did. I explained what I
was. I answered the question on the impact of what I did on the running of the
organization.

Citizen: So, as far as the board was concerned, the board did not know your
current political belief?

Levine: Ask the board.

Citizen: Did the board know Mr. Levine's current ...

Mulder: The selection committee, and I believe there was a double process that
went through that and dealt with the issue the way it was described. The board
was given the information on the qualifications of Mr. Levine. We also raised
the issue up front.

The fact is that, at one stage, Mr. Levine was active in the Parti Quebecois,
back in 1979 ...

Citizen: Yes, but his current status?

Mulder: And nobody asked at the board.

Citizen: Nobody asked.

Mulder: Nobody asked. They just wanted to be satisfied that he had not been
actively involved recently because he was 29 years old when he did that in the
Parti Quebecois.

The view was also, as we corroborated, he worked as a chief administrator in
hospitals, under the Parti Quebecois and the Liberals, and that he was not
actually involved in the Parti Quebecois right now, and particularly, that
whatever his views were that it would not impinge on his role of being a
first-class administrator of the Ottawa Hospital. And that is what the board
concurred with and that is why the nomination was approved.

Citizen: Is there a political clause in (Mr. Levine's) contract?

Mulder: No.

Citizen: Is he under any instructions not to talk?

Mulder: Yes, by me, and the board.

Citizen: What did the board tell him?

Mulder: 'You are not getting involved in politics,' simple as that.

Citizen: Period.

Mulder: And I would say that to any CEO. It didn't matter what stripe, where
they came from. You are not to go and use that job to promote your political or
personal beliefs.

Citizen: What is the consequence if he did?

Mulder: That we would -- as Mr. Levine says, that if he did that, we would take
action -- probably terminate his employment.


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1998

LENGTH: 507 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: Wayne HIebert, for The Ottawa Citizen / The chairman of
the hospital board Nick Mulder, right, explains he has advised David Levine,
left, as he would any chief executive, 'You are not to go and use that job to
promote your political or personal beliefs.' If he does, he will be fired.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Yemen Times

                                 July 21, 2011

WHO warns of health crisis in southern governorates

LENGTH: 725 words


SANA'A, July 20 - Violence increased last week in Taiz, Arhab, Abyan, and Sana'a
due to continuing political unrest. However, the World Health Organization (WHO)
representative in Yemen, Dr. Ghulam Popal, confirmed to the Yemen Times that all
political parties involved in the recent events are cooperating regardless of
their roles in the conflicts.



"Everything in Yemen is political, but health services are more neutral and
impartial. We appreciate the assistance from all parties and the field hospitals
," said Popal.

As different parties provide different information about any individual
incident, the WHO has three step procedure in place to check the neutrality of
any information supplied to them.

First, when an incident occurs an operation team from both the Ministry of
Health and the WHO call all the hospitals to keep posted on their needs and the
number of killed and injured. Second they glean information from field hospitals
at the protest areas. Finally, in cases of conflicting information from
hospitals and field hospitals, the representative and the health cluster
coordinator go and check the situation for themselves.

In February, when the anti-government protests started, protesters complained
that the government hospital were not accepting injured protesters, or if
accepted that they were not treated well. Dr. Popal told the Yemen Times that
this situation has now changed, and that the Kuwait Hospital in Sana'a is
treating injured protesters.

The WHO also works with internally displaced persons (IDPs) from both south and
north Yemen. According to the WHO, southern governorates in Yemen are facing
three emergency humanitarian situations simultaneously. There is an influx of
IDPs within Abyan, with many others heading towards Aden and Lahj. There is also
a serious outbreak of diarrheal diseases and cholera in Abyan, and finally there
are incoming casualties from the conflict zones in Aden.

If the current unstable situation continues, Dr. Popal fears that IDPs will be
more vulnerable to food poisoning over the up-coming Ramadan period. People
usually eat a lot during the night during Ramadan, and given the shortage of
power for refrigeration or cooling, food poisoning is likely to be a problem as
food spoils during the daytime heat.

IDPs in Abyan complained to the Yemen Times of dirty and standing water they
have to use because of a shortage of clean water. The WHO said that they cover
16 schools in order to solve this problem. The WHO is supporting two mobile
health care units in Aden and one in Lahj. These mobile units are delivering
health care services to IDPs living mostly in schools and with host families.

Another common complaint by IDPs is that their children suffer badly from
diarrhea diseases. In response the WHO has sent a complete diarrhea disease
treatment kit to Aden, which includes antibiotics, oral rehydration salts (ORH)
and intravenous fluids for the management of 100 severe and 400 moderately
dehydrated patients. This has been delivered to the Al-Razi Hospital which is
providing inpatient treatment. The WHO has also sent one interagency emergency
health kit (IEHK), which is a metric ton of medicines and supplies for primary
health care - enough for a population of 30,000 for one month - to Abyan for
Al-Razi hospital.

The outbreak of diarrhea has grown increasingly serious in Abyan governorate.
Between April 7 and June 15, Al-Razi hospital has reported 667 patients admitted
suffering diarrhea. A hospital in Shokra has also reported 75 cases. The number
of cases in the population at large will be far higher, as there is no system to
collect and report the cases due to security situation in Abyan. There are no
figures as to how many are suffering or dying at home away from the hospital -
the only place where records are kept. The situation looks as it will get worse
with outbreaks spreading to the neighboring governorates of Lahj and Aden if
immediate action to control the diseases are not taken now.

In addition to maintaining a supply chain of medicines and supplies, the WHO has
also chlorinated 12 water wells in the affected areas to try and control the
outbreak. WHO has trained volunteers from the community in Abyan as they have
more access to locals there, but the security situation has still stopped the
local and emergency projects from working.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 13


     Copyright 2011 Yemen Times - Yemen Times Press, Printing & Publishing
                         Syndigate.info, Al bawaba.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 29, 2004

Crazy to close Queen Mum's says Tory boss;Motion calls for vote of no confidence
in health minister

BYLINE: By Brian Currie Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words


IT would be "crazy" to close the Queen Mother's Maternity Hospital and lose its
link with the Sick Kids' Hospital, Tory leader David McLetchie said.

Mr McLetchie was speaking as he revealed a motion which will be debated in the
Scottish Parliament tomorrow.

It identifies the threat facing hospital services throughout Scotland, including
the Queen Mother's in Glasgow, and calls for a vote of no confidence in Health
Minister Malcolm Chisholm.

Mr McLetchie, who will speak at a protest rally in Glasgow on Saturday against
health bosses' plans, said: "I hope the Scottish Executive will recognise the
strength of opinion in Glasgow, specifically in relation to the Queen Mother's
Hospital.

"I think it's well recognised the importance of maintaining a maternity unit and
the adjacent paediatric unit services."

He said: "This proposal to close seems crazy."

He was backed by Glasgow MSP Bill Aitken who said: "It is vital to have this
kind of unit next to a maternity hospital.

"At the moment you have an intensive care unit within a 20 second walk of the
delivery room. It would be madness to close it down."

However, the Tories have been criticised by the SNP and Stobhill campaigner Dr
Jean Turner for not supporting a motion she had tabled.

SNP health spokesperson Shona Robison said: "While it is true the SNP also have
little faith in the health minister, a vote of no confidence is unlikely to gain
support from Liberal and Labour members.

"This was an opportunity to unite the parliament on hospital closures and they
have failed to do so.

"If the Tories were truly concerned about the cuts, they would have done the
decent thing and backed Jean Turner's motion, already supported by six out of
seven political parties in the parliament,

"Instead they have done little more than play politics with a very serious
issue."

Dr Turner said: "I don't think changing the minister makes any difference - if
it doesn't change the policy.

"It is a kind of politics I just don't understand. We urgently need to stop the
rot."

Dr Turner's motion calls for the Executive to suspend all reorganisations while
a national strategy is developed.

brian.currie@eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FIGHTING TALK: David McLetchie lines up with Queen Mum's

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              432 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            February 7, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan: Terror attack on Karachi hospital

LENGTH: 661  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Feb. 07 -- The Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre bomb blast, which
left 13 people dead and many more wounded on Friday afternoon, also disrupted
emergency services at the JPMC as doctors and paramedical staff ran for
safety.According to our correspondent, those accompanying the victims and
volunteers were enraged by the absence of the doctors and paramedical staff as
they rushed in fresh bodies and wounded.They resorted to vandalism, smashing
everything that came their way and shouting slogans against political parties
and the hospital management.The doctors and staff were attending to the wounded
of the first blast in different wards when a big explosion took place in front
of the emergency and casualty section of the hospital, causing 13 deaths and
serious injuries to a number of people, including relatives of the victims of
the first blast, rescue workers and media persons.After dispatching 12 bodies of
the first blast's victims to a private hospital, JPMC doctors were working on a
plan prepared in consultation with high-ups in the administration, including the
district coordination officer of Karachi, leaders of the Shia community and
volunteers for shifting the wounded to private hospitals. But the hospital blast
and subsequent mayhem disrupted the process and delayed the shifting for another
hour or more.After the second blast, at around 4.45pm, doctors, paramedics and
other people inside the emergency centre had run out in panic and confusion,
deserting the emergency section.As the explosion raised a plume of dust and
people ran helter-skelter, chaos prevailed outside the emergency section
also.Community workers as well as ambulance staff, mostly belonging to various
non-governmental and social organisations, rushed inside the emergency section,
carrying the bodies of the latest victims and wounded.

But there was nobody to receive them even in the resuscitation room of the
emergency, which was damaged in the blast.The emotionally-charged volunteers
shouted slogans against the government and political parties and took the
victims out of the emergency and rushed them to other hospitals.Noted social
worker Abdus Sattar Edhi, who was supervising his ambulance and rescue workers
handling the victims of the first blast, was in his vehicle near the site of the
second blast, but remained unhurt. "You can see I am safe and unhurt," he told
this reporter in a state of utter grief and desperation.At least four
motorcycles and four ambulances of the Edhi centre were badly damaged in the
hospital blast. The hospital staff and visitors accused the security agency
personnel of having lax vigilance and casual restrictive measures on the
hospital premises.Outside the main building of the hospital, 10-year-old Meena,
a resident of Abyssinia Line, told media people how she saw the blast
occur.According to her, she and her two brothers had come there to see their
relatives, but she lost track of her brothers after the blast.She said while
standing near the emergency centre she saw a man riding a bicycle and operating
a device he held in his hand, following which a television placed on a nearby
motorbike blew up and she saw parts of human bodies flying into the air.Hassan
Javed, a former office-bearer of a Shia association of Saudabad, said that there
were 65 to 70 people, including children, in the bus run by the Hussaini
Safaratkhana Imambargah in Saudabad.The bus had started off at 2pm from the RCD
Ground to take its passengers to the main Chehlum procession.An official of the
provincial health department said that about 78 people injured in the two blasts
were admitted to the Aga Khan Hospital, Liaquat National Hospital, Civil
Hospital Karachi and the National Medical Centre.In all, 133 people were injured
in the Friday blasts. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Reforms vital for hospital service

BYLINE: Liu Xiangrui

LENGTH: 446  words


Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Experts and medical professionals on the committee pointed out that medical
services heavily dependent on labor are severely undervalued in the current
system, while the costs of medical checks, medical equipment and some medicines
can be reduced.

According to Wang Chengxiang, a doctor at Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, the costs of more than 4,300 of 5,300 medical items were set in 1999,
and since then the average price has increased by 18 percent and average income
is four times greater.

"The current medical service prices can hardly support the normal operation of
hospitals," said Hai Li, a doctor at Beijing's Nanyuan Hospital.

Large hospitals have to depend on the medical services they provide to patients
to support their employees' incomes and development, said Jia Jidong, director
of the Liver Disease Research Center at Capital Medical University.

This situation has resulted in overloading of medical workers and unsatisfactory
service for patients, Jia said.

Ao Hushan, director of the Medical Insurance Office at Fuwai Hospital, suggested
that Beijing should accelerate use of the diagnosis-related group system of
medical care to break the link between doctors' incomes and prescriptions,
thereby preventing excessive medical treatments and overprescription of drugs.

DRG classifies patients by diagnosis, average length of hospital stay, and
therapy received. The classification is used to determine how much money
healthcare providers will be given to cover future procedures and services.

Beijing has experimented with DRG in six of its hospitals since 2011. However,
Ao believed the city should take further steps.

"Only some diseases are included in the program," said Ao.

While the government has encouraged patients to have initial diagnosis at
community hospitals and only visit larger hospitals for major illnesses, Jia
from Capital Medical University suggested the adoption of policies favoring
basic-level hospitals and medical workers.

Obstacles to the career advancement of medical workers at lower-level hospitals
should be eliminated, Jia said.

"We must keep those skilled medical workers at community hospitals since they
are the key to attracting patients and winning patients' trust in those
hospitals," he said.

liuxiangrui@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Reforms vital for hospital service

LENGTH: 452  words


Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Experts and medical professionals on the committee pointed out that medical
services heavily dependent on labor are severely undervalued in the current
system, while the costs of medical checks, medical equipment and some medicines
can be reduced.

According to Wang Chengxiang, a doctor at Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, the costs of more than 4,300 of 5,300 medical items were set in 1999,
and since then the average price has increased by 18 percent and average income
is four times greater.

"The current medical service prices can hardly support the normal operation of
hospitals," said Hai Li, a doctor at Beijing's Nanyuan Hospital.

Large hospitals have to depend on the medical services they provide to patients
to support their employees' incomes and development, said Jia Jidong, director
of the Liver Disease Research Center at Capital Medical University.

This situation has resulted in overloading of medical workers and unsatisfactory
service for patients, Jia said.

Ao Hushan, director of the Medical Insurance Office at Fuwai Hospital, suggested
that Beijing should accelerate use of the diagnosis-related group system of
medical care to break the link between doctors' incomes and prescriptions,
thereby preventing excessive medical treatments and overprescription of drugs.

DRG classifies patients by diagnosis, average length of hospital stay, and
therapy received. The classification is used to determine how much money
healthcare providers will be given to cover future procedures and services.

Beijing has experimented with DRG in six of its hospitals since 2011. However,
Ao believed the city should take further steps.

"Only some diseases are included in the program," said Ao.

While the government has encouraged patients to have initial diagnosis at
community hospitals and only visit larger hospitals for major illnesses, Jia
from Capital Medical University suggested the adoption of policies favoring
basic-level hospitals and medical workers.

Obstacles to the career advancement of medical workers at lower-level hospitals
should be eliminated, Jia said.

"We must keep those skilled medical workers at community hospitals since they
are the key to attracting patients and winning patients' trust in those
hospitals," he said.

liuxiangrui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily USA 01/29/2015 page5)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Reforms vital for hospital service

BYLINE: Liu Xiangrui

LENGTH: 451  words


Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Experts and medical professionals on the committee pointed out that medical
services heavily dependent on labor are severely undervalued in the current
system, while the costs of medical checks, medical equipment and some medicines
can be reduced.

According to Wang Chengxiang, a doctor at Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, the costs of more than 4,300 of 5,300 medical items were set in 1999,
and since then the average price has increased by 18 percent and average income
is four times greater.

"The current medical service prices can hardly support the normal operation of
hospitals," said Hai Li, a doctor at Beijing's Nanyuan Hospital.

Large hospitals have to depend on the medical services they provide to patients
to support their employees' incomes and development, said Jia Jidong, director
of the Liver Disease Research Center at Capital Medical University.

This situation has resulted in overloading of medical workers and unsatisfactory
service for patients, Jia said.

Ao Hushan, director of the Medical Insurance Office at Fuwai Hospital, suggested
that Beijing should accelerate use of the diagnosis-related group system of
medical care to break the link between doctors' incomes and prescriptions,
thereby preventing excessive medical treatments and overprescription of drugs.

DRG classifies patients by diagnosis, average length of hospital stay, and
therapy received. The classification is used to determine how much money
healthcare providers will be given to cover future procedures and services.

Beijing has experimented with DRG in six of its hospitals since 2011. However,
Ao believed the city should take further steps.

"Only some diseases are included in the program," said Ao.

While the government has encouraged patients to have initial diagnosis at
community hospitals and only visit larger hospitals for major illnesses, Jia
from Capital Medical University suggested the adoption of policies favoring
basic-level hospitals and medical workers.

Obstacles to the career advancement of medical workers at lower-level hospitals
should be eliminated, Jia said.

"We must keep those skilled medical workers at community hospitals since they
are the key to attracting patients and winning patients' trust in those
hospitals," he said.

liuxiangrui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 01/29/2015 page5)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              436 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Reforms vital for hospital service

BYLINE: Liu Xiangrui

LENGTH: 451  words


Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Experts and medical professionals on the committee pointed out that medical
services heavily dependent on labor are severely undervalued in the current
system, while the costs of medical checks, medical equipment and some medicines
can be reduced.

According to Wang Chengxiang, a doctor at Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, the costs of more than 4,300 of 5,300 medical items were set in 1999,
and since then the average price has increased by 18 percent and average income
is four times greater.

"The current medical service prices can hardly support the normal operation of
hospitals," said Hai Li, a doctor at Beijing's Nanyuan Hospital.

Large hospitals have to depend on the medical services they provide to patients
to support their employees' incomes and development, said Jia Jidong, director
of the Liver Disease Research Center at Capital Medical University.

This situation has resulted in overloading of medical workers and unsatisfactory
service for patients, Jia said.

Ao Hushan, director of the Medical Insurance Office at Fuwai Hospital, suggested
that Beijing should accelerate use of the diagnosis-related group system of
medical care to break the link between doctors' incomes and prescriptions,
thereby preventing excessive medical treatments and overprescription of drugs.

DRG classifies patients by diagnosis, average length of hospital stay, and
therapy received. The classification is used to determine how much money
healthcare providers will be given to cover future procedures and services.

Beijing has experimented with DRG in six of its hospitals since 2011. However,
Ao believed the city should take further steps.

"Only some diseases are included in the program," said Ao.

While the government has encouraged patients to have initial diagnosis at
community hospitals and only visit larger hospitals for major illnesses, Jia
from Capital Medical University suggested the adoption of policies favoring
basic-level hospitals and medical workers.

Obstacles to the career advancement of medical workers at lower-level hospitals
should be eliminated, Jia said.

"We must keep those skilled medical workers at community hospitals since they
are the key to attracting patients and winning patients' trust in those
hospitals," he said.

liuxiangrui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 01/29/2015 page5)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              437 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                January 29, 2015

Reforms vital for hospital service

BYLINE: Liu Xiangrui

LENGTH: 451  words


Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Experts and medical professionals on the committee pointed out that medical
services heavily dependent on labor are severely undervalued in the current
system, while the costs of medical checks, medical equipment and some medicines
can be reduced.

According to Wang Chengxiang, a doctor at Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, the costs of more than 4,300 of 5,300 medical items were set in 1999,
and since then the average price has increased by 18 percent and average income
is four times greater.

"The current medical service prices can hardly support the normal operation of
hospitals," said Hai Li, a doctor at Beijing's Nanyuan Hospital.

Large hospitals have to depend on the medical services they provide to patients
to support their employees' incomes and development, said Jia Jidong, director
of the Liver Disease Research Center at Capital Medical University.

This situation has resulted in overloading of medical workers and unsatisfactory
service for patients, Jia said.

Ao Hushan, director of the Medical Insurance Office at Fuwai Hospital, suggested
that Beijing should accelerate use of the diagnosis-related group system of
medical care to break the link between doctors' incomes and prescriptions,
thereby preventing excessive medical treatments and overprescription of drugs.

DRG classifies patients by diagnosis, average length of hospital stay, and
therapy received. The classification is used to determine how much money
healthcare providers will be given to cover future procedures and services.

Beijing has experimented with DRG in six of its hospitals since 2011. However,
Ao believed the city should take further steps.

"Only some diseases are included in the program," said Ao.

While the government has encouraged patients to have initial diagnosis at
community hospitals and only visit larger hospitals for major illnesses, Jia
from Capital Medical University suggested the adoption of policies favoring
basic-level hospitals and medical workers.

Obstacles to the career advancement of medical workers at lower-level hospitals
should be eliminated, Jia said.

"We must keep those skilled medical workers at community hospitals since they
are the key to attracting patients and winning patients' trust in those
hospitals," he said.

liuxiangrui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 01/29/2015 page5)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              438 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            March 3, 1994, Thursday

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF Hiring pathologists may end doubts over Foster suicide

BYLINE: By Ernie Freda STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 12

LENGTH: 892 words


Whitewater independent counsel Robert Fiske has decided to re- examine the
conclusion that White House deputy counsel Vincent Foster committed suicide in
July.

Fiske will hire pathologists to review the evidence. Fiske revealed in court
filings that "forensic experts and pathologists will be retained" to make an
independent analysis of the evidence. Foster's body was found in a northern
Virginia park, and U.S. Park Police officers concluded Foster shot himself.

The Associated Press quoted an unnamed government official as saying Fiske is
reopening the issue because "questions have been raised in the press and
elsewhere about whether it was a suicide." Previously, Fiske had said only that
he would review "all the events" related to Foster's death.

DID HE VOTE? NATCH! He said he'd be back - and he was. Rep. William Natcher
(D-Ky.), 84, was wheeled onto the House floor on a gurney to cast his 18,398th
vote. He hasn't missed one since coming to Congress 40 years ago. House leaders
called off legislative business Tuesday because Natcher couldn't leave Bethesda
Naval Hospital. But aides wheeled him onto the floor Wednesday morning -looking
feeble, thin and pale - dressed in a suit and tie and hooked up to an oxygen
tank and intravenous tube. He was attended by four members of the hospital
staff, all in Navy uniform. Natcher voted first on a routine procedural matter,
and later cast a negative vote on an amendment to the Clinton administration's
education bill. On the way out, Natcher shook hands with House Speaker Thomas
Foley (D-Wash.)

HIGH SCORE; NO CIGAR: Rep. Mac Collins (R-Ga.) wasn't listed on the "honor roll"
of lawmakers doing the most to hold down the budget deficit even though he had
the highest rating - 94 percent - of anyone in the Georgia delegation, senators
included. Blame his party affiliation. Collins failed to make the cut because
the rating was done on a curve for each party, and Republicans had higher
scores. The bipartisan Concord Coalition cited the top 15 Republicans and
Democrats in the House for special recognition on the basis of votes on key
issues affecting spending and the deficit. The 15th Republican scored 95
percent; the 15th Democrat scored 82. So Collins failed to make the cut despite
a higher rating than some Democrats.

JOB FOR A SPELLER: The White House has a proofreading problem that could
alienate someone from every country represented at a high-level international
jobs summit hosted by President Clinton in Detroit on March 14. White House
documents misspelled the names of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth
Clarke (spelled Clark), German Labor Minister Norbert Bluem (spelled Bloehm),
Italian Treasury Minister Piero Barucci (spelled Pietro) and European Economics
Commissioner Henning Christophersen (spelled Christopherson). What's more, the
first names of the French economics and labor ministers, Edmond Alphandery and
Michel Giraud, were omitted, according to the International Herald Tribune. The
newspaper reported additionally that the White House also insulted invitees by
telling them they will have to foot their own hotel bills. The Washington Post
quoted Jay Bryne, a government spokesman for the jobs conference, as saying the
materials in question were simply drafts documents and, "Obviously we apologize
for any embarrassment it caused."

ELSEWHERE

The National Rifle Association abruptly halted the sale of lists of former
members' names after being swamped with complaints from angry members, and NRA
executive vice president Wayne LaPierre said, "The privacy of our members is of
paramount importance and outweighs the revenue benefit." . . . Associate
Attorney General Webster Hubbell, responding to a report in The Washington Post,
said he has been questioned by his former law firm - Rose Law Firm of Little
Rock, Ark. - about his billings in past cases, but he emphatically denied ever
overcharging clients and diverting the excess to his personal use. . . . Vice
President Al Gore will be going to Argentina, Brazil and Bolivia later this
month and will address the International Telecommunications Union on the role of
modern telecommunications in global development. . . . Chief Justice William
Rehnquist rejected the bid by Sen. Bob Packwood (R-Ore.) to hold onto his
subpoenaed diaries, making it almost certain they will be turned over to the
Senate Ethics Committee. . . . Actor Tom Selleck, who launched the Character
Counts Coalition last year with former Rep. Barbara Jordan (D-Texas), visited
Capitol Hill to discuss creative ways to instill basic values in youth as a way
to counter violence and crime. . . . Bar associations representing American
lawyers of Asian and Pacific descent called on President Clinton to start
nominating Asian/Pacific Americans to federal judgeships.

IT'S A FACT

The 76 members of the reform-minded Watergate-class of House members elected in
1974 marked one of the biggest turnovers in congressional history. And of those
76, only nine will remain in January - assuming everyone running is re-elected.

SAY IT AGAIN

"He got the Bushes out of the White House, Flowers in the bedroom and pansies in
the Marines." - Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), now under fire from a gay rights
group for calling President Clinton "gardener of the year."

-From staff, news services and published reports

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH940630200

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vincent Foster. / Associated Press Photo: Rep. Mac Collins. /
Associated Press

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              439 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                           September 25, 2016 Sunday
                              CourierMail Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 519 words


SICK OF HOSPITAL PARKING FEES Visiting my 102-year-old mother-in-law in hospital
opened my eyes to the high fees charged at hospital parking stations. These
included $11 for one hour and $16 for two hours. For those who go to hospital
often, this becomes a major impost (SM, Sep 18). The alternative of street
parking is made more difficult by extensive use of yellow, no parking lines
which have nothing to do with safety. Leasing the parking stations in such a
lucrative environment does not make sense. The lessee has to pay the rent then
add a margin to make a profit. Unnecessary costs only add to the trauma of
caring for someone who is hospitalised. Hospital boards would offer a major
social service if they ceased leasing and managed the stations in-house. As a
result, they would be held in much higher regard by the public who would no
longer see the stations as an opportunity for profiteering.

Paul Andersen, The Gap

Even staff aren't exempt from paying outrageous hospital parking fees. It is
almost impossible to use the pick-up and drop-off zone at the Royal Brisbane and
Women's Hospital as resentful hospital patrons park there and the
under-resourced security staff never seem to enforce it.

Lance Brady, Wilston POLITICIANS ARE OUT OF TOUCH Critics of Pauline Hanson,
such as columnist Lauren Martyn-Jones (SM, Sep 18), fail to realise that her
support comes from people, like me, who feel totally left out of the
decision-making process. Political decisions seem to be made at very high levels
and then enacted, leaving people to just fall in behind. It's not good enough.
The decisions behind closed doors that major political parties make seem to have
more to do with party wellbeing than with community wishes. Maybe if MPs were
accountable to the electorate through regular public forums, they would be much
more secure in their tenure. Without such public forums, politicians keep away
from their real power base, the voters, and then suffer the consequences.

Lyn Smith, Ferny Hills FADED PHOTOS TUG AT HEARTSTRINGS Hear, hear, to Rory
Gibson and his column (Stellar, Sep 18). There is no comparison between tactile
photographs and a digital image. How can digital images evoke emotional
attachments? I would rather hold and feel, smell, touch and reminisce with
photos that have travelled through time, with their faded figures still waiting
to greet me. They are there to shed a tear, laugh and smile at occasions
captured forever with a real camera. Click, click.

Susan McLochlan, Caboolture South

All correspondence with the editor, including emails, must include your name,
address and telephone numbers. Letters must be short and may be edited.
NEWSQUEENSLAND, as publisher of The Sunday Mail, may license third parties to
reproduce in electronic form and communicate letters.

This publication is bound by the standards of practice of the Australian Press
Council. If you believe the standards may have been breached you may approach
The Sunday Mail itself or contact the council by email at
infopresscouncil.org.au or by phone (02) 92611930. For further infomation see
www.presscouncil.org.au

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              440 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 17, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOSPITAL BOARD PROHIBITS PARTY TIES

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 624 words


Political party officials have been barred from holding management jobs at city
hospitals and serving on the board of directors of the Health and Hospitals
Corporation, which administers them.

One member of the board - Ruth Bloom, a Democratic district leader from Queens -
announced yesterday that she would resign as a director, and another board
member, Paul J. Henry, resigned from the Democratic State Committee.

''In our government, I don't know how you can have government without
politics,'' said Mrs. Bloom, a district leader from Forest Hills. ''I understand
their intention, but I don't think this is a valid way to go about it.''

While Mrs. Bloom chose to step down from the board, Mr. Henry, a partner in the
Manhattan law firm of Breed Abbott & Morgan, chose instead to resign from the
Democratic State Committee, according to his secretary.

A third board member, Arlene S. Goldstein, said she was inclined to resign from
the state committee, but had not made a decision.

The new policy comes in the midst of a continuing city scandal that has focused
attention on patronage and the role of politics in government. Democratic Party
leaders in Queens and the Bronx have been charged or implicated in extortions
and other allegations.

The rules were issued last week by the president of the board, Dr. Jo Ivey
Boufford, and publicly disclosed yesterday. They were made retroactive to April
1 for new employees. Current employees will have until July 1 to either resign
from the corporation or leave their party posts.

Dr. Boufford did not return a telephone call. Suzanne Halpin, an assistant vice
president for public information at the corporation, said she did not know how
many district leaders, state committeemen or other party officials worked in the
3,216 management jobs at the corporation's hospitals and clinics.

An 11-to-1 Vote

In a resolution last month supporting the new rules, the board said: ''The
simultaneous holding of positions with political parties or political
organizations and positions of discretionary power or influence within the
corporation has the potential for resulting in conflict of interest or creating
the appearance of such conflict.''

The resolution, introduced by the corporation's chairman, Victor E. Botnick, a
top adviser to the Mayor, was approved by a vote of 11 to 1, with Mrs. Goldstein
opposed. Mrs. Bloom and Diane E. Lacey-Winley abstained.

When he first took office in 1978, Mayor Koch barred city employees from serving
as party officials, but the ban was not extended to the corporation, which is
legally independent but under the Mayor's control.

The corporation's board has 16 members, including Mr. Botnick, five city
commisioners serving ex-officio, five others appointed by the Mayor, and five
appointees of the City Council. Board members serve without pay. Some critics
have said that some board members lack background and experience to make
informed judgments about the hospital system.

''I see a board that is relatively inexperienced,'' said Dr. Donald C. Meyer,
the executive director of the Doctors Council, which represents attending
doctors and dentists at city hospitals. ''My concern is that I really don't
believe that the board of directors as a group has that much information.''

Earlier this month, John J. McLaughlin, a former president of the corporation,
was indicted on charges of taking a $150,000 bribe to help a California company
win a city contract. And Monday, a financial officer in charge of billing at the
corporation was directed to go on leave after the disclosure that he had held
100 shares of stock in a company whose operations he oversaw. Neither was known
to hold a party position or to be active in politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              441 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Instability costing country dearly says President Yadav

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 299  words


SIRAHA: President Ram Baran Yadav today said Nepal has failed to achieve its
development goals due to lack of stability and frequent changes in the country's
political system.

Addressing the inauguration of Phul Kumari Mahato Memorial Hospital in Siraha,
the Head of State said, "Our country is known as the land of the brave Gurkhas,
and is popular for its natural beauty. But it has lagged behind in development."
He said that lack of cooperation and coordination among political parties was
costing the country dearly.

"The multi-party system that we have today is a result of sacrifice of many
Nepalis. But political parties have not been able to fully utilise it properly,"
had said. "Nepal was declared republic after passing through a decade-long
conflict. But parties have yet to mend their ways," he held.

President Yadav welcomed the latest steps taken by political parties towards the
formation of a national consensus government, a month before the tenure of the
Constituent Assembly expires. "I would like to thank the political parties for
whatever agreement they have recently reached," he said. Yadav called on
political leaders to now settle all contested issues of the constitution to meet
the CA deadline.

The new building of Phul Kumari Mahato hospital, established eight years ago,
has 12-beds. The facility, which cost Rs 180 million to build, was commissioned
by Upendra Mahato, an industrialist and philanthropist. Mahato, speaking at the
programme, expressed hope that the hospital would cater to the need of the local
populace.

The hospital, which has three senior doctors, has facilities such as X-ray and
ultrasound units and operation theatre.

Former Prime Minister and UCPN-Maoist Chairperson Pushpa Kamal Dahal had laid
the foundation of the hospital about four years ago.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              442 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 21, 2004

CHISHOLM U-TURN ON HOSPITAL CLOSURES

BYLINE: Andrew Nicoll Scottish Political Reporter

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 179 words


HEALTH Minister Malcolm Chisholm has ordered a halt to hospital closures
following massive nationwide protests.

He has put a freeze on any shutdown plans until he has seen a report on the
future of the NHS in Scotland due out next year.

Hopes are growing that he now intends to reprieve Glasgow's Queen Mother's
Maternity Hospital along with several others.

In a letter to MSPs he said he is planning an announcement on the Queen Mum's
soon.

Mr Chisholm's U-turn follows bruising talks with Labour MPs at Westminster. Many
feared a backlash against the state of the NHS in Scotland could cost them their
jobs.

Carolyn Leckie, health spokeswoman of the Scottish Socialist Party, said:
"Malcolm Chisholm can dress this up any way he likes. This is effectively the
moratorium on closures which we have been demanding."

But the SNP's Shona Robison said: "This still does not secure the future for
hospitals like the Queen Mother's and Stobhill. He must make it crystal clear
which facilities will be given more breathing space and which ones won't."


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              443 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 14, 2004, Tuesday

HOSPITAL CAMPAIGN GOES TO STORMONT

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 385 words


OMAGH hospital campaigners took their protest to the steps of Stormont yesterday
and unveiled their latest posters .

Speaking at the start of this latest phase of a bid to secure a new acute
hospital in Omagh, campaign chairman Danny McSorley said it had been planned to
emphasise to politicians the seriousness of the situation..

"We have planned the launch to coincide with this week's political negotiations
at Leeds Castle and wish to emphasise to all those involved the urgency of
getting a devolved local administration so that local Ministers can urgently
re-examine the decisions by direct rule Ministers on the future provision of
lifesaving acute hospital services. "The decision on the provision of acute
hospital services is recognised as a local issue, which should be decided by
local politicians.

"The leaders of the political parties recognise that Developing Better Services
fails to provide accessible acute hospital services for all the people of the
rural west and agree that the issue will be re-examined by a new Executive when
a new Assembly is in place.

"Our aim is to highlight that lives will be put at risk as a result of the
removal of all acute hospital provision from Tyrone, the largest county in
Northern Ireland with a population of over 160,000 people."

Mr McSorley said the campaign group had been assured by the four main parties
that the removal of acute hospital provision from Tyrone would be examined by
the Health Minister in a new devolved administration.

" The campaign group has been assured by the leaders of the four main parties
that the decision taken by Des Browne will be looked at again."

The group also held a protest at the Department of Health., Social Services and
Public Safety with short addresses by MLAs Kieran Deeny and Barry McElduff and
councillors from Omagh and Strabane.

Dr Deeney said: "This is a crosscommunity issue and we are suppose to be in a
democracy but no- one is listening.

"We hope, when we get a new Assembly up and running, local people will listen
and this issue will be addressed in the proper manner."

Each of the speakers urged Minister Angela Smith to immediately stop the
implementation of Mr Browne's decision.

The protest group handed in a letter at Castle Buildings to Ms Smith.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited


                              444 of 998 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                November 7, 2001

A&E unit 'could be axed'.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 225 words

DATELINE: Watford



THE accident and emergency unit at either Watford General Hospital or Hemel
Hempstead Hospital could be axed, South West Hertfordshire MP Richard Page has
warned.

Mr Page made the claim at a political conference in his constituency on Friday,
October 26, on health issues following the announcement of the closure of the
Hemel Hempstead maternity unit.

He said: "The probability of Watford and Hemel Hempstead hospitals operating to
the same level of activity and medical speciality is looking increasingly
unlikely.

"The political decision to keep both Watford and Hemel Hempstead hospitals open
is looking more and more like a political quick fix.

"The situation will grow more and more unsatisfactory day by day, with one
hospital gaining an enhanced facility and the other losing."

He said recent decisions to move the maternity unit to Watford and opthalmics to
St Albans are the beginning of a shake up in healthcare provision.

He added: "Where will all this lead? It seems likely that one of the accident
and emergency units at these hospitals could go. They are providing separate A&E
services, but the future for both is looking increasingly bleak."

He concluded that a new hospital in south west Hertfordshire should be
considered.

November 1, 2001 15:57

"mailto:revans@london.newsquest.co.uk"Richard Evans


LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


                              445 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday

Political interference feared: Committees to guide teaching hospitals

LENGTH: 579  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Nov. 06 -- The City District Government of Lahore has constituted
committees comprising PML-N leaders and workers for the guidance of heads of all
teaching hospitals and other health facilities in the provincial metropolis.

Committees will replace boards of managements of teaching hospitals constituted
by the Punjab health department during the previous regime and have become
non-functional after completing their tenure, it is learnt.

Quoting a CDGL notification (No DO C/1871, dated 25-10-2010), a health
department officer said: "It`s the first-ever initiative of any political party
to empower its leaders and workers to improve the public sector healthcare
system in Lahore despite the fact that the incumbents have no experience of
healthcare facilities management."

Earlier, public sector health facilities were being supervised by BoMs
comprising businessmen, academicians, retired judges and senior civil servants
besides principals of teaching hospitals and senior doctors.

A source said the Punjab health department had not re-constituted BoMs providing
an ample opportunity to the CDGL for interference in the teaching hospitals`
affairs being run by the Punjab health department.

Another purpose to form committees was to provide maximum healthcare
opportunities to party workers and voters, the source said.

The decision, however, caused unrest among heads of institutions because they
feared that health facilities might become a hub of political activities.

Mayo Hospital medical superintendent Dr Zahid Pervez told Right Vision News that
the DCO had no authority to constitute any committee to run affairs of teaching
hospitals.

He said that teaching institutions were providing healthcare to the people
through doctors and government officers posted through the Punjab health
department.

A notification issued by the district officer (coordination), on behalf of the
DCO, directed heads of all public sector health facilities in Lahore to "follow
instructions of Hospital Welfare Committees` members in letter and spirit."

According to the notification, names of the chairmen followed by vice-chairmen
of welfare committees with a hospital name in parenthesis will be: Ilyas Khan,
Haneef Butt (Mayo Hospital), Nasir Dar, Nargis Rana, Baji Bano (Lady Willingdon
Hospital), Naveed Kamal Bhatti, Attaur Rehman Siddiqui (Services Hospital),
Malik Asim Mustafa, Jamshaid Khilji (Sir Ganga Ram Hospital), Chaudhry Munir
Ahmad, Junaid Seharwardi (Punjab Institute of Cardiology), Hasnain Haider, Mst
Perveen, Rana Abdul Sattar (Children`s Hospital), Khalid Qadri advocate, Naeem
Butt (Lahore General Hospital), Waqar Siddiqui, Rukhsana Kokab (Jinnah Hospital)
, Chaudhry Boota, Zahid Iqbal (Mian Munshi Hospital), Haji Bashir Ahmad,
Muhammad Azeem Pasha (Kot Khawaja Saeed Hospital), Asghar Kokab, Khalid Bhutta
(Bilal Ganj Hospital), Ghulam Mohiuddin, Rana Ishfaq (Nawaz Sharif Hospital,
Yakki Gate), Rahat Afza, Rahat Shaukat (Lady Aitchison Hospital), Shuja Dar,
Usman Butt (Said Mitha Hospital), Hassan Din Bhatti, Sohail Aqeel (Mozang
Hospital), Zulfiqar Shah, Rana Umer Daraz (Shahdara Hospital), Sheikh Ramzan,
Abdul Shakoor (Model Town Hospital), Malik Mehmoodul Hassan, Riaz alias Raju
(Islampura Hospital), Ikram Kami, Rizwan Haider (Dental Hospital) Published by
HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              446 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday

Liberal 'humiliated' by hospital firing;
Defeated Vaughan candidate accuses board of playing politics with Fantino,
Tories

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 473 words


The Liberal who lost to Conservative Julian Fantino in the Vaughan federal
byelection says he was fired from his position as chair of the regional hospital
board as political payback.

"This is a real kick in the teeth," Tony Genco told the Star of his firing from
the volunteer position early Monday. "It's bizarre to me, but they've decided
I've become a political liability. I feel humiliated."

The board of York Central Hospital is working to expand health service in the
area with a new hospital in Vaughan. Fantino embraced the issue during the
campaign, making the fight for federal infrastructure dollars for the hospital a
central plank in his platform.

Genco says he believes the board wants him out to facilitate relations over the
new hospital with Fantino and the Conservative government. Genco lost by about
1,000 votes in the Nov. 29 vote, after a rough and often personal campaign.

The board is "doing what the Tories want them to do," he said, "which is to get
rid of me ... Now I've lost twice. This isn't how things should be done - this
is not a third- world country."

Acting chair Dina Palozzi denies the firing was political or had anything to do
with the board's future relations.

"After deliberating for a period of time, we came to the conclusion it was best
for the hospital, and the best interests of the hospital, to renew our
leadership," she said.

She said she knew of no pressure from the Conservatives to dump Genco, adding
that the board's only goal is to help bring a hospital to Vaughan.

Genco was appointed board chair last June for a two-year position.

He points out that other board members, including Michael DeGasperis, a
prominent Vaughan business person, remain on the regional hospital board,
despite having been active on the Fantino campaign.

DeGasperis, also board chair of the Vaughan Health Care Campus of Care, another
organization that supports the new hospital, appeared with Fantino during the
campaign.

At the event, Fantino pledged to make "a passionate and forceful case" on
Parliament Hill for both a new hospital and broader health services.

Fantino described himself as a "vocal advocate, supporter and fundraiser for the
Vaughan hospital over the years, co-chairing the highly successful fundraising
committee last year."

Palozzi said it's not against board policy for members to be involved in
partisan politics, but added the chair should be non-partisan.

As a public institution, she added, it's best for the hospital "not to be seen
in a partisan way."

But Genco says there's nothing in the rules making any distinction for the
chair.

The board advised Genco in late October to take a leave of absence for the
campaign. Palozzi said it wouldn't have been appropriate to tell Genco he
couldn't run if he expected to remain board chair.

Genco made a plea to stay on to the board early Monday morning.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Defeated Liberal candidate Tony Genco, left, believes partisan
politics were behind his firing from York Central Hospital's board. THE CANADIAN
PRESS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              447 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Mosman & Lower North Shore Daily (Australia)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday

Fix our hospital system now

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 508  words


A crisis at the Royal North Shore Hospital?

Warringah Federal Liberal MP and Federal Health Minister Tony Abbott plays
politics by taking over one hospital in Tasmania. Why not (take over) the Royal
North Shore Hospital?

He also takes a cheap shot at the State Government for his party's political
gain, then we have the Premier giving us sad puppy-dog eyes at a press
conference telling us that the events of the last week were unacceptable.

Damn right they were.

Australia is supposedly a developed country. It wouldn't be surprising to learn
that Rwanda's public hospital and education system is superior to ours.

It is time for both sides of politics to stop the finger-pointing contests and
thinking only of economic rationalism.

We should also spare a thought for the doctors and nurses and how
under-resourced and overworked they are.

Surely the health and wellbeing of our families and friends is paramount.

A message to all political parties: fix the hospital system. The lives of all of
us depend on it.

Mark Beckman,

Northbridge

It's time for some

answers, Mike

MIKE Bailey, where do you stand on environmental issues and climate change?

Your party shares the Coalition's view that you can produce clean coal. But
there ain't and can't be any such animal.

And your shadow Environment Minister Peter Garrett thinks it is OK to approve
the proposed pulp mill in Tassie's Tamar Valley.

What an environmental disaster that would be. This project has been fast-tracked
by the Tasmanian Labor Premier with no proper environmental assessment.

It will belch out some 800,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases for the next 30 years.
It will gobble up more old-growth forests, and damage farms, vineyards, local
fishing and tourism.

So what does Mike Bailey think of the pulp mill proposal and why should we
expect a more enlightened environmental policy from a Rudd government than from
the Coalition, whose obsolete policies are built into its very name?

Mike, please tell the voters of North Sydney your views

Ted Nixon,

Greens candidate for North Sydney

Our film night

was a sell-out

MORE than 100 guests attended our film night on September 3, kindly sponsored by
Mosman mayor Denise Wilton.

Peter FitzSimons was our genial host. Jessie Taylor the film's writer and
producer flew from Melbourne for this Sydney premiere of her documentary We Will
Be Remembered For This.

Wonderfully filmed and edited it tells a very moving story of the effects on a
group of young people who travelled to Baxter Detention Centre to meet refugees.

The film was so popular all copies of the DVD sold out.

Special thanks to Cr Wilton for her support for our work with Sydney's most
destitute asylum-seekers. She truly embodies the spirit which saw Mosman vote to
register as an official Refugee Welcome Zone.

Thanks to Andre Khoury's excellent article in The Mosman Daily. We booked out
immediately and had to turn lots of people away. We hope to screen this film
again. Please email www.asylumseekers

foundation.com if you would like to be notified.

Kate Maclurcan

Bridge For Asylum Seekers Foundation

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MOS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              448 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               December 15, 1999, Wednesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Siegel trying to 'do the right thing'

BYLINE: WAYNE WASHINGTON

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1091 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Bruce Siegel says he can't worry about political critics as he works to save
TGH. Today, some of them discuss much-needed funding.

He offers himself up. Doesn't fight back. Not here anyway, with the public
access television cameras rolling and angry Hillsborough county commissioners
firing away at him.

Tampa General president Bruce Siegel adopts the pose and expression of a
petulant adolescent, mad that Dad took the car keys but powerless to demand
their return.

His friends read the next day's headlines and see his unsmiling face in the
newspaper and ask, "Who is this man?"

Certainly, it's not the quiet, witty man his friends have come to know.

"Given the tenor of the political debate, people would think I'm belligerent and
I'm not," Siegel said recently. "I'm trying to do the right thing by this
hospital."

Who is this man?

Bruce Siegel, 39, Ivy League-educated, husband, father of two, is many things.
But friends and colleagues say he is not a man easily ruffled.

There's a job to do at Tampa General, and Siegel plans to do it his way: Damn
the critics; full speed ahead.

Today, county commissioners plan to discuss releasing all or part of a $
22-million payment the hospital expected to receive for providing health care to
the poor.

The money has been withheld by commissioners who say they are concerned about
the financial condition of the hospital, which has lost $ 24-million in the two
years since it was privatized in a nasty political fight.

The commission's refusal to release the money was widely seen as a slap at
Siegel and members of the private board who oversee the hospital. It also
sharply framed the feud between local politicians and the man chosen 2 1/2 years
ago to run Tampa General.

Prominent members of Tampa's political establishment say Siegel's reservoir of
credibility has run dry.

"I haven't talked to Bruce Siegel in a year and a half," Tampa Mayor Dick Greco
said recently. "It is vital that this hospital survives. I don't think I would
operate it the way it has been."

Many others - including county commissioners and state legislators - agree.

Former County Commissioner Dottie Berger, who supported Siegel's plan to
privatize the hospital, describes Siegel as a good man. But asked if the
hospital will get the political support it needs with Siegel as its president,
Berger hesitates.

"People have drawn a line in the sand," she said. "I think he is a lightning
rod. Personalities are not allowing us to solve the problem."

Members of the private board Siegel answers to offer him public support.

"As a board, we believe management is getting beaten up terribly, unfairly,"
board member Jeremy Ross said.

Even as the political storm rages, Siegel rides the rough seas with ease.

To him, the critics are of the same mindset: They are angry that the hospital
was privatized over their objections and are using him as a scapegoat.

Only rarely do the arrows wound him.

"You can't worry about your job all the time," Siegel said during a recent
interview. "If you worry about your job all the time, you can't be effective."

Siegel's job got tougher when he became part of a federal extortion
investigation into two county commissioners. No charges have come from an
investigation many think Siegel started by complaining to federal prosecutors.

Siegel won't comment on his role, but he said he has no regrets.

Nor, he said, does he regret pushing for the privatization of TGH, a move he
maintains is critical to the hospital's survival.

Several elected officials, noting his fight for public hospitals in New York,
actually thought Siegel was the perfect person to lead a public Tampa General
back to financial security.

There were clues, however, that Siegel's tenure wouldn't be problem-free.

Even with his impeccable background - cum laude Princeton graduate, degrees from
Cornell University Medical College and Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and
Public Health - Siegel had never stayed in one job for three years.

He served as commissioner of New Jersey's Health Department for about a year,
and he was president of New York City's hospital system for less than two years.

His time in New York was tough, punctuated by battles with Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani.

Tampa, by contrast, seemed to offer a smoother ride. So far, it has been
anything but.

"It's been an interesting time since I've been here," he said recently, a boyish
grin crossing his face. "The environment here is chock full of challenges."

That's not how friends and associates describe his experience. They don't know
the Bruce Siegel who critics say came to town saying one thing and ended up
doing something very different.

Dan Greenwald, a Tampa plastic surgeon and a member of the county Hospital
Authority, has known Siegel since they attended Princeton together 20 years ago.

"He's sophisticated," Greenwald said. "He's very well-rounded."

And he has thick skin.

"There are some small-town politics here," Greenwald said. "I think he takes
(criticism) with a grain of salt."

Siegel said he is accustomed to people disagreeing with his views. "What worries
me here," he said, "is the climate of negativity, which only serves to distract
from the problems of the hospital."

Many Tampa General employees agree.

"It's not uncommon at all to see him walking the ICUs at 5:30 on a Friday
night," said Kelley Sharp, a registered nurse. "When I'm there doing my extra to
see that needs are met, he, too, is there to make sure things are being heard. I
have not taken anything to Dr. Siegel and not had it taken care of."

Siegel said he should work harder at building stronger political bridges, but
his already tight schedule makes that difficult.

His wife, Maura Cooper, is a pediatrician. They have two young girls, a
20-month-old and a 4-year old. They own a $ 330,000 home in Hyde Park.
Occasionally, they go out for walks. Siegel said he enjoys taking his daughters
to their friends' birthday parties.

It's a good life but an extraordinarily busy one.

"It's tough to strike a balance," Siegel said.

"I try to make sure that for several nights and mornings I see the kids. But
it's hard. It's a struggle. Tampa General is very important, but my children, my
family, has to be my No. 1 priority."

For now - and for the foreseeable future - that family will remain in Tampa.

Greenwald said he would be surprised if his friend left town. "I don't see him
throwing in the towel," he said. "I've seen nothing that gives me the impression
that he's ready to quit."


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Dr. Bruce Siegel

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              449 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                December 1, 2003

Health boss faces critics at debate on Queen Mum's;Board planning director to
address public meeting over closure scheme

BYLINE: By David Leask And John Mccann

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 415 words


GLASGOW health chief Catriona Renfrew will face a showdown with

the public over plans to axe the Queen Mother's maternity hospital.

The planning director of NHS Greater Glasgow, a major figure in the health
board's decision to recommend closing the Queen Mum's maternity, will take part
in a debate in the west end.

Tomorrow night's meeting will see the health board's decision come under fire
from patients and staff at the hospital and at Yorkhill Sick Kids' hospital,
whose long-term future is threatened by the

closure plan.

Andy Harvey, of the Save Our Hospitals campaign which organised the meeting,
said: "This is a chance for people who feel strongly about the hospitals to put
their views to the unelected officials behind this

decision."

A health board spokeswoman confirmed it had accepted an invitation from
organisers.

She said: "Catriona Renfrew and the board's medical director, Dr Brian Cowan,
will attend the meeting."

Supporters of all the main political parties have pledged their support for the
closure-threatened hospital, widely regarded as Scotland's most important
maternity unit.

MSPs Carolyn Leckie, of the Scottish Socialists, and Sandra White, of the SNP,
will address the meeting.

Ms White said: "We have the support of members of all the political parties in
Glasgow."

Labour's Kelvin MSP Pauline McNeill, who can't attend, said: "As the
constituency MSP, I face the responsibility for retaining this hospital but it
is fundamental to have cross-party

support for the wider campaign."

Outspoken critics of the health board plans include Tory MSP Bill Aitken;
Labour's Jackie Baillie MSP; Strath-kelvin and Bearsden MSP and hospital
campaigner Jean Turner.

Green MSP Patrick Harvie has passed on a message of support to the public
meeting. The Queen Mum's has

won the backing of senior clinicians across Scotland and health union Unison.

And senior doctors - many of whom believe the closure will put babies' lives at
risk - are eager to see as many

people as possible come to their aid.

More than 100,000 Evening Times readers have signed our petition opposing the
plans.

Today Yorkhill consultant obstetrician Alan Cameron said: "During the public
consultation period, I would encourage anyone interested to express their views
and get involved in any local events organised for this purpose."

lTomorrow's meeting will take place in

Partick South Church, Dumbarton Road, at 7.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: December 02, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEBATE: MSPs Sandra White, far left, and Caroline Leckie will address
the meeting - as will NHS Greater Glasgow's Catriona Renfrew, right

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              450 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday

Health manifestos of political parties challenged

BYLINE:  STAFF REPORT

SECTION: Vol. III No. 305

LENGTH: 273  words


Dr Tasleem Akhtar,Dr. Yasmeen Rashid ,Prof. Humayun Maqsood ,Dr Zia Ullah
Bangash & Dr Tanweer Anwar

Nur Center for Research and Policy (NCRP) in collaboration with Fatima Memorial
Hospital held a seminar to challenge the health manifestos of leading political
parties prior to the general elections in the country.

The seminar was attended by political party representative, hospital directors
from public and private hospitals, healthcare institutions, members of Pakistan
Medical Association, the healthcare community and the members of the media.

Dr Yasmeen Rashid of Pakistan Tehreek-e- Insaaf and Dr Zia Ullah Bangash of
Pakistan People's Party spoke on the health manifestos of their respective
parties and the implication they had on Punjab and Pakistan should they be
elected.

Fatima Memorial College Principal Prof Humayun Maqsood, Dr Tanweer Anwar of the
Pakistan Medical Association along with development partners and donor agencies
shared their health mandates and their upcoming programs at the seminar.

In conclusion, recommendations were formulated for the provincial health reform
mandate after a collaborative process by the NCRP. These reforms were along the
6 pillars of health system defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO) i.e.
health service delivery, health workforce, health information systems, access to
essential medicines, health systems financing, leadership and governance.

The Punjab provincial health department is currently engaged in drafting its
provincial health policy which broadly aims at provision of affordable,
accessible and quality health care to the people of Punjab in an equitable
manner.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday

Health manifestos of political parties challenged

BYLINE:  STAFF REPORT

SECTION: Vol. III No. 305

LENGTH: 273  words


Dr Tasleem Akhtar,Dr. Yasmeen Rashid ,Prof. Humayun Maqsood ,Dr Zia Ullah
Bangash & Dr Tanweer Anwar

Nur Center for Research and Policy (NCRP) in collaboration with Fatima Memorial
Hospital held a seminar to challenge the health manifestos of leading political
parties prior to the general elections in the country.

The seminar was attended by political party representative, hospital directors
from public and private hospitals, healthcare institutions, members of Pakistan
Medical Association, the healthcare community and the members of the media.

Dr Yasmeen Rashid of Pakistan Tehreek-e- Insaaf and Dr Zia Ullah Bangash of
Pakistan People's Party spoke on the health manifestos of their respective
parties and the implication they had on Punjab and Pakistan should they be
elected.

Fatima Memorial College Principal Prof Humayun Maqsood, Dr Tanweer Anwar of the
Pakistan Medical Association along with development partners and donor agencies
shared their health mandates and their upcoming programs at the seminar.

In conclusion, recommendations were formulated for the provincial health reform
mandate after a collaborative process by the NCRP. These reforms were along the
6 pillars of health system defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO) i.e.
health service delivery, health workforce, health information systems, access to
essential medicines, health systems financing, leadership and governance.

The Punjab provincial health department is currently engaged in drafting its
provincial health policy which broadly aims at provision of affordable,
accessible and quality health care to the people of Punjab in an equitable
manner.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              452 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              South Coast Register

                                 June 27, 2016

Letters to the editor

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 617  words


A month or so ago I wrote in the South Coast Register about the appalling
service my nephew, who had cancer, received in the emergency ward. The man was
in massive pain yet had to wait four hours to be seen. That was after he had
been bought in by ambulance. He was still in the hospital two weeks later.

Following my letter in the SCR, I received a phone call from the hospital
administration staff asking me if I was going to put in an official complaint.
My answer was "not at this time". A sigh of relief came through the phone and I
was told, "I will check to see how busy the ER was and get back to you". I would
have thought checking your facts before you phoned the person in question would
have been mandatory. I'm still waiting for that phone call.

I went on to explain, that if they wanted to check how bad my nephew was all
they had to do was check their records as he was still in their hospital....the
phone went silent for a second or two and that's when they stated that they
would get back to me.

No more than 10 minutes after I had got off the phone from the administration
department I received a phone call from my nephew telling me that he needed to
be picked up as they were, in his words, "kicking him out".

This was at 3pm. I picked him up and a couple of days later moved him to Sydney
where once again he was rushed into hospital. On July 14 he passed away. I'm not
having a go at the nursing staff or doctors as they were terrific. It is the
admin department and management that needs a good kick in the backside.

To send a man in that condition home was ridiculous and now there will be an
official complaint put in.

Could they have done anything else for him at Shoalhaven Hospital is something
we will never know.

However, I am hearing of more cases where patients and their families are
unhappy with what is happening at that hospital.

On July 2 we have a federal election (council elections in September) and I am
what is known as a swinging voter. I have no idea who to vote for because I have
lost faith in our local council, political parties, including their leaders, and
the state and local representatives. I am disillusioned by all the broken
promises, the political rhetoric, the accusations our political parties hurl at
each and the never ending political and bureaucratic hyperbole we are supposed
to swallow and believe.

I live in Sussex Inlet but we have some serious employment and lack of
development problems. The latest appears to be that our local waste depot is
going to be closed by Shoalhaven City Council. SCC sent surveys to some
ratepayers regarding the waste depot, no surveys were sent to any small
businesses, and anyone who lives in Sussex Inlet knows small businesses are the
backbone of our community.

The residents and small business owners of Sussex Inlet are disgusted by this.
What does the SCC want to do to Sussex Inlet? Do they want to make Sussex Inlet
one big rubbish dumping ground at holiday times? Does council want to see the
slow death of our lovely town?

Council lacks any sensible vision for the future of Sussex Inlet. Recently it
gave approval for some housing development in Sussex Inlet (after years and
years of the developer jumping through hoops), and now council wants to close
the Sussex Inlet waste depot. It begrudgingly approved a much needed residential
development, happily accepted the increased rate revenue, but does not want to
continue to provide waste services despite the increase in population.

Will council reduce rates when our tip is closed? No it won't, but more likely
will continue to increase our rates, for more rangers and clean-up crews and to
make their "fit for the future" annual report look better.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              453 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              July 19, 2010 Monday

Amid dozens of dead & scores of injured, the political circus goes on...

BYLINE: Shiv Sahay Singh

LENGTH: 475  words

DATELINE: Sainthia (Birbhum)


Even after the horrific train accident at Sainthia, Birbhum district, where
victims' bodies were being extricated from mangled railway bogies early on
Monday morning, rival political parties refused to conduct themselves with the
sobriety and dignity that the occasion demanded. Both at the accident site and
at the hospitals where the injured, many in critical condition, had been sent,
political muscle flexing was on in full swing and groups of party activists
accompanied by district leaders were involved in a no-holds-barred slanging
match.

Senior CPM leader Gokul Bairagi reached the Sainthia spot along with 20
supporters when the rescue operations were in full swing. Other leaders like
Rebati Chaterjee of the All India Forward Block and Anubrata Mondal reached the
site with hordes of supporters. As the accident had occurred at platform number
4, the crowd of political activists created a situation where the Railway
Protection Force (RPF) and police could not control the mob even in the presence
of Railway Minister Mamata Banerjee. "Mamata Banerjee Jindabad, Rail Mantri
Jindabad" slogans greeted the Railway minister as she landed at Sainthia station
at 12.50 pm.

But the minister strictly ordered her supporters not to indulge in sloganeering.
The crowd that had gathered at the station tried to reach out to the leader who,
however, avoided them and, within minutes after arriving at the accident spot,
again took a train to Suri. At Suri Hospital, too, Trinamool supporters in
hundreds gushed with their party supremo in the different wards she visited.
Banerjee tried hard to contain her supporters but the crowd was huge and could
not be controlled.

CPM supporters too were present at Suri hospital and were trying to reach out to
Left Front MP Ramchandra Dom. The Trinamool chief avoided the Left MP but chose
to speak to BJP MP from Bhagalpur, Shahnawaz Hussain, who too visited the
hospital.

Early in the morning at the hospital, both the Students Federation of India
(SFI) and the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI),  the student and
youth wings respectively of the CPM, set up a stall and put up flags, festoons
and banners at various places.

The Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad, too, set up a camp in the hospital.
During her visit there Banerjee paused at the stall, snatched a mike and asked
the people to donate more blood.

"We have been here since 5 am to help the people. Most of our supporters are
here and have been camping since morning. We are trying to help the people ,"
said DYFI District Committee Member Ranadeep Mitra.

With the political divide starkly evident both at the accident site at Sainthia
and the hospitals in nearby Suri, Birbhum district, which has become a political
hotspot with incidents like the recent murder of former Nanur MLA Ananda Das,
presented a sorry figure on a tragic Monday.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              454 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Burnham halts plan to close Whittington hospital services

BYLINE: Randeep Rameshguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 355 words

ABSTRACT

Campaigners claim dramatic victory as health secretary admits proposals never
had the support of staff

FULL TEXT

Andrew Burnham, the health secretary, has "completely halted" a proposed closure
of accident and emergency and maternity services in north London, a dramatic
victory for campaigners and a "major U-turn" according to his political
opponents.

Thousands marched to protest against health authority proposals to close
emergency services at the Whittingdon hospital in north London.

In an interview with the Guardian today, Burnham blamed political opponents for
"whipping up emotions".

"There was a political campaign that threatened destabilise NHS services... It's
been happening all over the country. The potential destabilisation of the A&E
service and the hospital in general becomes too much. It comes to a point where
it is damaging morale and affecting retention of staff in the NHS."

The health secretary admitted that the plans had not been supported by staff at
the hospital. "We cannot go forward without clinical support," he said. The
hospital's 100 consultants and the British Medical Association had opposed the
plan.

All of the main parties have now pledged to keep the services open at the
hospital, which is on the border of Islington and Highgate. The Conservative
shadow health secretary, Andrew Lansley, who will be in charge of the NHS if the
Tories win next week's election, and the Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg have
already vowed not to lose the hospital.

Ministers had argued that new specialist units, centres of excellence and
24-hour urgent care facilities would provide better health care for patients and
help avoid a potential London NHS budget deficit of up to £860m by 2015.

Now political opponents claim Labour has acted to save local marginal seats -
especially Islington south, which is being targeted by both the Tories and the
Lib Dems.

Lansley said: "This is a welcome U-turn by Andy Burnham. I and many others
called for a stop to the flawed plans by NHS London to shut down local hospital
units months ago, and he accused me of resisting change. He has now completely
caved in.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              455 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                   September 11, 2003 Thursday Final Edition

It's a different campaign at the door

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Charles Gordon

SECTION: City; Charles Gordon; Pg. F4

LENGTH: 753 words

With everybody paying attention to the new political TV commercials, it is easy
to lose sight of the fact that elections are won and lost locally.

What the candidate says at the door matters. Ability to apply the party platform
to the local situation is one of the things that impresses voters. Not every
voter thinks about the candidate and the local issues, but enough of them do.

It helps when the leader has a feel for the local situation. Ottawa Liberals are
clearly helped by the fact that their leader, Dalton McGuinty, can speak from
the heart about his native city.

At an Ottawa West-Nepean rally on Saturday, McGuinty took effective aim at
provincial interference in local affairs. "They didn't like the way we ran our
hospitals, so they took over our hospitals," McGuinty said. "They didn't like
the way we ran our schools, so they took over our school board." He also
mentioned the closing of the Montfort Hospital and the closing of the CHEO
cardiac surgery units. Ottawa people, he said, "are capable of making their own
decisions."

His first act upon becoming premier, McGuinty said, would be to ensure that the
CHEO cardiac unit would remain open. (He later told a media scrum that his first
act would be to cut class sizes down to 20 up to Grade 3, so he may have a busy
day.)

The parties give a lot of thought to the individual ridings, and what kind of
people live in them. Just before the election was announced, telephone callers
on behalf of Ottawa West Tory MPP Garry Guzzo were stressing two planks out of
the party platform: mortgage interest deductibility and banning teachers'
strikes.

Well, the riding has a high percentage of home owners. Also, Ottawa West-Nepean
has a higher-than-normal concentration of seniors so another plank, the
property-tax rebate to seniors -- in effect, a rebate of education tax -- could
play well too.

The Liberal candidate, Jim Watson, hopes not. It is his view that seniors may
not have kids in school, but they have grandchildren and will resent the
inference that they don't want to pay for education. The seniors' attitude,
according to Watson, will be: "We're not going to be bought off for a couple of
hundred bucks."

Ottawa Centre candidates, visiting the Citizen editorial board this week, were
divided on the impact of the Tory property-tax breaks and deductible mortgage
interest on the voters of their riding. The incumbent, Richard Patten of the
Liberals, said it depends on which part of the riding you canvass, whether you
hear about it at the door. The comments of his two opponents seemed to bear this
out.

"I get it quite often," said the Conservative candidate, Joe Varner. "It's a
good way to give property owners a break."

NDP candidate Jeff Atkinson said he never hears about it. "Most people see it
for what it is. It's a gift that came down just before election time."

Part of that difference would have to do with the Tory mentioning the issue at
the door and the New Democrat pushing some other issue. Part of it would have to
do with another election phenomenon, that there are ridings within ridings.
Dealing with a somewhat related issue of high rents and the shortage of
affordable housing, Varner said he never heard that issue at the door. Atkinson
said he heard it all the time. Varner had been campaigning in Westboro and
around Prince of Wales, Atkinson was talking about downtown. These are all parts
of the same riding.

When the leading candidate is a city councillor, as in Ottawa-Vanier, where
Madeleine Meilleur is the Liberal, city council can become an issue. Yesterday,
when the candidates for Ottawa-Vanier spoke to the editorial board, the Tory
candidate, Maurice Lamirande, made a point of placing the blame for a
prostitution problem in the riding on the city government.

"We see violence in Ottawa- Vanier like we've never seen before," he said.

Similarly with official bilingualism, a whispered-about sleeper issue in other
ridings, but an out-front topic in the 40-per-cent francophone Ottawa- Vanier.
It's "the job of the municipalities," to make bilingualism official, Lamirande
said. (Both the city and the province should make the designation, Meilleur
said. Her NDP opponent, Joseph Zebrowski, said the NDP would be glad to
designate Ottawa bilingual.)

The ability to talk about local issues says more about the candidates than their
ability to recite the party platforms. Try it out on the candidates when they
hit your door.

The Citizen's Charles Gordon writes here on Thursdays.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              456 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            April 25, 1990 Wednesday

STA refuses Ashford sign

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 455 words


The State Transport Authority (STA) has refused bus advertising by Ashford
Community Hospital in its campaign to have a cardiac surgery unit because it is
"too political".

The move has brought an angry response from the chairman of the hospital board,
Unley mayor Mr David McLeod, who describes the decision as "outrageous
censorship".

A bid by Ashford to establish the State's first private open heart and bypass
surgery unit was refused earlier this month by the South Australian Health
Commission.

The hospital refuses to accept the decision as final and is pushing to have it
reversed. Mr McLeod said that, as part of the campaign, Ashford had contracted
to have space on the rear of 55 buses through Buspak, STA's bus advertising
agency.

However, the 2m by 1m panel signs saying "Have a Heart Dr Hopgood - cardiac unit
for Ashford" were knocked back yesterday because Buspak and the STA said they
were "too political".

"Of course they are political - that's the sort of fight we have got on our
hands," Mr McLeod said.

"The biggest thing that concerns me as a private citizen is that you have one
government authority censoring on behalf of another government department
private advertising material.

"As a lawyer, that smacks of gross infringement of freedom of private speech. If
the Government wants to have a monopoly on the STA then it has got to permit
freedom of speech on its buses.

"For them to knock out such an innocuous statement as political seems to me to
be completely outrageous and a government authority censoring on behalf of the
Government - unbelievable."

Mr McLeod said Ashford would run with another sign "Who does your heart belong
to? - Ashford offers choice".

But he was less happy with it than the one which drew attention to Dr Hopgood.

The STA's customer services manager, Mr Rick Teague, said the decision to reject
the advertisement was taken by Buspak, a private company which leases the sides
of STA buses for advertising.

"The company has an agreement with STA that it will not accept advertising of a
political nature," he said. "The decision was supported by the STA which also
deemed it to be a political statement and contrary to its policy."

He said the Buspak contract stipulated that there would be "no advertising of
political or religious statements or any tobacco ads".

Ashford's chief executive officer, Mr Geoff Sam, said South Australian health
authorities could not acknowledge that cardiac surgery could be carried out in
the private sector and not be restricted to public teaching hospitals.

He said that in NSW the Health Department had just approached the Adventist
Hospital to contract to provide bypass surgery on public patients.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: ashford sign; The Ashford sign which will not be seen on
Adelaide's buses.

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              457 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            April 25, 1990 Wednesday

STA refuses Ashford sign

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 455 words


The State Transport Authority (STA) has refused bus advertising by Ashford
Community Hospital in its campaign to have a cardiac surgery unit because it is
"too political".

The move has brought an angry response from the chairman of the hospital board,
Unley mayor Mr David McLeod, who describes the decision as "outrageous
censorship".

A bid by Ashford to establish the State's first private open heart and bypass
surgery unit was refused earlier this month by the South Australian Health
Commission.

The hospital refuses to accept the decision as final and is pushing to have it
reversed. Mr McLeod said that, as part of the campaign, Ashford had contracted
to have space on the rear of 55 buses through Buspak, STA's bus advertising
agency.

However, the 2m by 1m panel signs saying "Have a Heart Dr Hopgood - cardiac unit
for Ashford" were knocked back yesterday because Buspak and the STA said they
were "too political".

"Of course they are political - that's the sort of fight we have got on our
hands," Mr McLeod said.

"The biggest thing that concerns me as a private citizen is that you have one
government authority censoring on behalf of another government department
private advertising material.

"As a lawyer, that smacks of gross infringement of freedom of private speech. If
the Government wants to have a monopoly on the STA then it has got to permit
freedom of speech on its buses.

"For them to knock out such an innocuous statement as political seems to me to
be completely outrageous and a government authority censoring on behalf of the
Government - unbelievable."

Mr McLeod said Ashford would run with another sign "Who does your heart belong
to? - Ashford offers choice".

But he was less happy with it than the one which drew attention to Dr Hopgood.

The STA's customer services manager, Mr Rick Teague, said the decision to reject
the advertisement was taken by Buspak, a private company which leases the sides
of STA buses for advertising.

"The company has an agreement with STA that it will not accept advertising of a
political nature," he said. "The decision was supported by the STA which also
deemed it to be a political statement and contrary to its policy."

He said the Buspak contract stipulated that there would be "no advertising of
political or religious statements or any tobacco ads".

Ashford's chief executive officer, Mr Geoff Sam, said South Australian health
authorities could not acknowledge that cardiac surgery could be carried out in
the private sector and not be restricted to public teaching hospitals.

He said that in NSW the Health Department had just approached the Adventist
Hospital to contract to provide bypass surgery on public patients.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: ashford sign; The Ashford sign which will not be seen on
Adelaide's buses.

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              458 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 21, 2015 Monday 12:11 AM GMT

Peter Robinson discharged from hospital ahead of Stormont talks

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 478 words


Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader has been discharged
from hospital.

Peter Robinson, 66, was admitted to Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital on
Saturday after suffering an adverse reaction to prescribed medication.

A DUP spokesman confirmed Mr Robinson would be fit enough to attend crucial
talks to resolve the political crisis engulfing the powersharing political
institutions at Stormont today.

He said last night: "Mr Robinson was discharged from the Royal Victoria Hospital
earlier this evening. The DUP leader will be at Stormont tomorrow morning where
he will meet party colleagues regarding the talks process.

"Mr Robinson expresses his gratitude to the medical staff who treated him so
professionally during his short stay in hospital and the ambulance staff who
were the first responders."

In May, Mr Robinson spent four nights at the RVH after suffering a suspected
heart attack and had three stents fitted to help the flow of blood.

At the time, he blamed his illness on a diet of fast food and lack of exercise
rather than the stress of his job.

Mr Robinson has endured a punishing schedule since the devolved Assembly was
plunged into crisis following the murder of a man by Provisional IRA members
last month.

He temporarily stood aside as First Minister and pulled all but one of his
ministers out of the five party Executive.

The DUP said his overnight hospital stint had been a precaution.

Political rivals had expressed concern and wished him a speedy recovery.

Sinn Fein's Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness said on Twitter: "Concerned
that Peter Robinson admitted to hospital but pleased that he is comfortable &
doing well. Wishing him the best for recovery."

Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) leader Mike Nesbitt said: "It is concerning to hear
that Peter has been admitted to hospital. I hope that it is not serious and that
he will be back on his feet again as soon as possible."

The political institutions have been rocked following a police assessment that
Provisional IRA members were involved in the shooting of Kevin McGuigan in
August in a suspected revenge attack for the murder of former PIRA commander
Gerard "Jock" Davison three months earlier.

Round table negotiations aimed at resolving the difficulties were scheduled to
start last week but were stalled after unionists demanded UK Government action
on paramilitaries before the talks could begin.

On Friday, Northern Ireland Secretary Theresa Villiers' proposal for an
independent examination of the role, structures and purpose of paramilitaries
was accepted by the DUP and UUP who committed to being at the negotiating table.

Also on the agenda at Stormont House will be the full implementation of the
Stormont House Agreement which aimed to tackle legacy issues relating to
Northern Ireland's Troubles, the budget and controversial welfare reforms.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              459 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Patriot

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Cancer hospital not be targeted for political motives; Elahi

SECTION: Vol. 11 No. 214

LENGTH: 151  words


Deputy Prime Minister Ch Parvez Elahi has said that N-League should not make
Imran Khan's welfare institutions like Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital target of
its traditional political victimization.In a statement issued here on Thursday,
Ch Parvez Elahi said that targeting a hospital for political vengeance was
highly deplorable and the greatest moral degradation on the part of N-League. He
said politicking against most modern hospital rendering great services to the
cancer patients was highly condemnable and worst example of resorting to such
low level tactics and grave violation of moral and social values.Ch Parvez Elahi
said that Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital was a non-political welfare institution
rendering healthcare services to the people where millions of cancer patients
were provided most modern treatment and highest standard of facilities and
deserving patients are even treated free.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 The Patriot
                              All Rights Reserved


                              460 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday

Nurses' strike intensifies with political backing

SECTION: KOZHIKODE

LENGTH: 170 words


KANNUR: The strike by the nurses at Speciality Hospital here has intensified
with support flowing in from political parties.

While the SFI organized a protest march to the hospital, the DYFI said in a
statement that the arrest of the nurses on Tuesday was not justified and the
hospital management is trying to suppress the strike with the help of police.
The Congress has supported the nurses and asked the management to settle the
issue amicably.

The march by SFI witnessed some unruly scenes as the protesters entered the
hospital premises by breaking the police cordon. The nurses were arrested and
removed from the venue on Tuesday, which helped them garner more support. The
nurses in the private hospitals in Kannur, Kasaragod and Wayanad observed black
day on Wednesday in protest against the police action.

Another round of talks will be held on Thursday at labour office here in the
presence of regional conciliation officer E Venu, said the representatives of
the striking nurses.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              461 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 August 9, 2017

Health Condition of Nba Chief Stable, Kept Under Observation: Cong leaders,
activists clash with cops after stopped from meeting Patkar

BYLINE: Our Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 467  words


INDORE: Amid chaos due to clashes between police and visitors from a spectrum of
political parties and social organisations, Bombay Hospital administration on
Tuesday claimed that health conditions of NBA chief Medha Patkar have improved
and she is recovering well.



However, the hospital administration refused to comment on her hunger strike and
said that they were providing all the necessary medical treatments to Patkar.

Patkar was forcibly removed from the dharna site at Chikhalda village and
admitted to the Bombay Hospital on Monday after her health condition
deteriorated on the 12th day of hunger strike, demanding proper rehabilitation
of Sardar Sarovar Dam oustees from the government.

Meanwhile, government has deployed a heavy police force at the hospital, which
didn't allow any visitor, activist or political party leader to meet Patkar in
her room and faced their ire throughout the day.

Large number of NBA activists and Congress leaders, including Sajjan Singh Verma
and Pramod Tondon and Paras Saklecha were stopped by the police from meeting the
fiery NBA leader.

A chaos ensued, when Kukshi MLA Surendra Singh Baghel was not allowed to meet
Patkar by the police. After heated exchange of words for quite a long time,
Baghel and CSP Vijay Nagar, Jayant Rathore involved into a brawl with each
other, in which the MLA was manhandled by other cops.

I was manhandled by the cops when I was requesting them to let me meet the NBA
chief. Later, cops took me to the gate of ICU, but didn't allow me to enter
despite Patkar calling me inside," he said.

Baghel alleged that "Though Patkar's health condition has improved the
government has illegally detained her in the hospital to restrain her from
leading the protest against their anti-people actions."

Apart from Baghel, the Congress leaders and other activists too clashed with the
cops in their attempt to meet the NBA chief.

Clearing the hospital's stand, general manager (administration) Rahul Parashar
said "We are not allowing anyone to meet Patkar except her two attendants, as
she is admitted in ICU and under observation. Let alone Patkar, we do not even
allow anyone to meet a normal patient in ICU."

Taking about her health, Parashar said that she is recovering well but still
under observation.

Activist detained for two hours

An activist of 'Ghar Bachao, Ghar Banao Andolan, Bilal Khan was detained for two
hours by cops deployed at Bombay Hospital. Activists of NBA alleged that Bilal
was kidnapped by the cops and was released after two hours. "I was detained by
the police in the hospital and later in Lasudia police station. Cops let me off
only after taking an undertaking from me. My fault was that I was requesting
them to allow me to meet Patkar, Bilal said. A large number of social activists
condemned the detention by police.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              462 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Nigeria's Rivers State raps escalation of political violence

LENGTH: 477 words


Text of report by Nigerian privately-owned newspaper The Neighbourhood
(www.theneighbourhoodonline on 16 March

The Rivers State government has lamented the sudden escalation of political
violence in the state, which it claims are politically motivated, mostly by the
opposition main political party, Peoples Democratic Party [PDP].

It would be recalled that the state has witnessed an upsurge in politically
motivated violence since January, leading to the death of party members and
supporters of the two leading political parties in the state, PDP and the All
Progressives Congress [APC].

The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Sampson Parker, raised the alarm at a
press conference, in Port Harcourt on Saturday.

He said that he and his colleagues at the ministry "toil daily to ensure that we
provide services, given available resources in health care delivery because of
an increase in the number of victims of politically motivated violence".

Parker stated: "We have built some of the best health centres, hospitals and
other medical institutions. However, daily, our people are confronted with
danger as they go about their normal and lawful businesses.

"Fellow citizens, an orgy of political violence have been unleashed on the
people of Rivers State and we are seeing an abnormal increase in deaths and
injuries as elections approach".

Parker gave the statistics from the Braithwaite Memorial Specialist Hospital
[BMSH] and Kelsey Harrison Hospital from January to March 12 as 41 gunshot
injuries and 26 assaults, including machete injuries.

"Be mindful of the fact that we have not stated figures for deaths arising from
this new epidemic. The reason is that the dead were not brought to the
hospitals. However, we as reported in the news recently, there have been
killings at Oroworukwo, Okrika, Omoku and numerous others around the state", he
said.

"There is no doubt in my mind that there are cases which were neither reported
to the police nor government health facilities. Therefore, the figures given to
you here do not reflect the true index of political violence in our state.
Indeed, they may just be the tip of the iceberg.

"Let us note here that the Ebola scourge for which the country and our state
rose up as one to combat only accounted for 10 deaths in Nigeria, out of which
two were in Rivers State. Today, we go about our lives as if we have accepted
this ominous situation".

Parker said that he has decided to raise the alarm because the duty of those in
the Ministry of Health is to save lives, adding, "we are also using this
opportunity to warn our people and make them aware of the danger to our way of
life.

"Election period should be a time for debates, exchange of ideas, mobilization
of the people, exhibition of ambitions and greater gainful activities for our
teeming youths".

Source: The Neighbourhood, Port Harcourt, in English 16 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                             Extended Metro Edition

Abbott rebukes prissy Rudd - HEALTH DISGRACE

BYLINE: By MALCOLM FARR, National Political Editor

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 379  words


HEALTH Minister Tony Abbott last night accused Labor of a prissy response to his
hardline political comments on the Royal North Shore Hospital tragedy.

Opposition Leader Kevin Rudd was critical of Mr Abbott for trying to score
political points from the tragedy and directed him to the ''decent'' remarks of
Prime Minister John Howard.

''I'd ask Mr Howard to look very carefully at what Mr Abbott has said and form
his own judgment about whether those remarks are appropriate,'' Mr Rudd said.

Mr Abbott fought back, telling The Daily Telegraph: ''For Rudd to try to get all
precious about this just goes to show yet again he's got a glass jaw, yet again
he's got a really prissy tendency to overreact when people say things that get
under his skin.''

In direct reference to Jana Horska's ordeal of miscarrying in a toilet at RNS
Hospital, Mr Abbott had earlier said: ''In the end it's not whether the Federal
Government or State Government run these hospitals.

''The question is: Are they well managed? And I think that our public hospitals
would be much better run if we had decision makers closer to the people whom
their decisions will affect.''

Mr Abbott's keenness to make a general political point got caught up in the
hospital incident and his criticisms of some hospital administrators.

And he left the distinction blurred. The minister said his first point was
public hospitals were not easy to run and that even with the best will in the
world mistakes happen.

''The second point I want to make is that at least in some hospitals in NSW we
do seem to have systemic problems and I can fully understand why, faced with
what looks to be systemic issues in some hospitals, people look to the Federal
Government and say, 'Please, can you save us from these mistakes?''' he said.

''But I have one message for those people: If you don't like what's happening in
public hospitals now, don't vote Labor because state Labor has created this
problem and I think Federal Labor would just make the problem worse.''

Mr Howard had said he would comment carefully because of the inquiry.

He said the ''distressing story'' was ''a product of poor administration as much
as anything''.

''But no matter what government runs a hospital ... there can be administrative
mistakes and human error occurs.''

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              464 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 19, 2005

Howard slams health chiefs over Vicky ban;
Tory leader furious after being refused entry to city hospital

BYLINE: By BRIAN CURRIE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 398 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michael Howard campaigning for the September 29 Cathcart by-election
today with Scots Tory leader David McLetchie, left, and candidate Richard Cook,
right Picture:

Kieran Dodds


TORY leader Michael Howard today slammed Glasgow health bosses after they
refused to let him tour the Victoria Infirmary.

Heclaimed they told him a 'purdah' had been declared on political visits to the
hospital while the Cathcart by-election was being fought.

Mr Howard said both he and Labour leader Tony Blair had visited hospitals during
the General Election campaign earlier this year.

He added: "It's an outrage the health board has said we are not allowed into the
hospital."

Earlier, he called for the A&E services at the Victoria to stay open. He said:
"The people of Glasgow should not have to face these Labour cuts to such a
vital, life-saving service."

Tory candidate Richard Cook said clinicians were keen to speak to Mr Howard over
their fears about plans which will see the hospital lose its acute beds and
accident and emergency unit.

Mr Howard said under the proposed changes, backed by the Labour LibDem
executive, the number of people on the south side of Glasgow able to access A&E
services within 15 minutes would be cut from 80-per cent to 17-per cent. He
said: "This is wrong."

Labour candidate Charles Gordon arrived at the site of the proposed new hospital
minutes after Mr Howard had left but he did not attempt to visit the Victoria.

Carrying a giant cheque for GBP103million, the cost of the new investment, Mr
Gordon defended the new set up.

He was accompanied by Health Minister Andy Kerr, who said 82-per cent of
services currently at the Victoria would still be available and there would be
other new services there.

Mr Kerr claimed by voting for Mr Gordon people "know they will be electing
someone who will defend healthcare".

Meanwhile, the SNP accused Labour of having a "couldn't care less" attitude to
the fate of ScottishPower.

SNP candidate Maire Whitehead and the party's Holyrood leader Nicola Sturgeon
met staff at the energy company who face a possible takeover bid from German
utility firm E. on.

Ms Sturgeon told workers the SNP would give them its full backing. She said: "We
recognise the strategic importance of ScottishPower to the economy of Cathcart.

"I find it bizarre that so far the First Minister has been unable to offer any
support."

Chancellor Gordon Brown today said no decision will be taken on raising the
pension age until there has been a "national debate" as he campaigned for the
Livingston by-election.

brian. currie@ eveningtimes. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved


                              465 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                             March 7, 2015 Saturday

Political interference behind Sidon's hospital resignations

BYLINE: Mohammed Zaatari

LENGTH: 472 words


Endless administrative problems and ongoing political interference were behind
the mass resignation of the board of Sidon's Governmental Hospital this week,
sources from the medical center told The Daily Star.

SIDON, Lebanon: Endless administrative problems and ongoing political
interference were behind the mass resignation of the board of Sidon's
Governmental Hospital this week, sources from the medical center told The Daily
Star. "[Thursday's] resignations came as a result of obstacles to administrative
and routine [daily] work, which the hospital has struggled with for years," the
sources explained.

Following a unified decision made at an urgent meeting of the board, Chairman
Ali Abdul-Jawad presented the group's resignation.

Sources also cited political interference as a factor in the move, pointing to
rumors that the board had been pressured to resign.

"Some local politicians have been trying to hinder the board's work with
malicious attempts to marginalize the institution, despite it being a university
hospital," a source told The Daily Star.

The hospital provides care for patients not just from Sidon but from neighboring
areas as well. The range of its services may have brought it into competition
with other health care institutions.

Despite facing financial difficulties, the hospital has continued to pay
employees. But like other medical institutions in Lebanon, the hospital faces a
number of financial and logistical problems.

"These are related to the failure of ... private bodies to pay financial
obligations owed to the hospital," claimed one of the sources. "This is in
addition to ... a lack of support for the hospital among members of civil
society."

Health Minister Wael Abu Faour was accused by Popular Nasserite Organization
head, former Sidon MP Osama Saad, of being unreachable during the crisis.

"If you are able to get hold of Minister Abu Faour, let me know," Saad told
reporters at a press conference held in response to the news.

Saad blamed the failure of consecutive governments to provide Sidon's
Governmental Hospital with the resources it needs to operate effectively.

"Despite this [neglect], over the past couple of years the hospital has been
able to do important work," Saad said. "It has succeeded in providing health and
medical services for numerous patients, without burdening them with high
financial costs."

The facility has sought funding from other sources in efforts to improve
services and efficiency. With the benefit of a Spanish grant, the hospital has
used solar energy to heat its water.

Chairman Abdul-Jawad also recently signed an agreement with the Japanese Embassy
to provide a critical care unit for newborns, a facility unavailable even at
many private hospitals in Sidon. Sidon's Governmental Hospital has the highest
birth rate among medical centers in the south.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2015 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 7, 2007, Wednesday

Flag days and jam sales obscure a sticky political problem

BYLINE: Nigel Hawkes

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 482 words


Community hospitals are a great place to be if there is nothing much wrong with
you.

Local people love them, especially as they grow older. More jam has been sold
and more flag days organised to support "your local hospital" than is entirely
sensible. In retirement towns, every second will includes a bequest to the
cottage hospital. Such a close attachment should not be dismissed. Patients have
a right to the healthcare that has been paid for by their taxes. Local support
for community hospitals is almost the last vestige of the voluntary tradition
that created British hospitals before it was crushed beneath the boot of the
NHS.

Yet it has to be said that on strictly medical grounds the evidence for
community hospitals is weak or non-existent. A University of Aberdeen team
recently concluded from the medical literature on the subject (in BMC Medicine)
that it was "long on opinion but short on robust studies".

Community hospitals are largely used by the elderly who have been treated
elsewhere and need a few weeks of rehabilitation: admission is based on age
rather than condition.

Such studies as do exist fail to show that spending time in a community hospital
makes much difference. The alternative, staying a bit longer in a district
general hospital and then going straight home, seems to be just as
cost-effective.

But community hospitals are local, a word that currently carries weight with NHS
planners. The White Paper Our Health, Our Care, Our Say was full of exhortations
to make services more local and more accessible.

It is this conflict between localism and effectiveness that explains the
Government's equivocation over community hospitals. It would like to see lots of
local clinics run by GPs and nurses, delivering care promptly and efficiently
and keeping patients out of district general hospitals.

Unfortunately most of today's community hospitals are not like that at all. They
are often elderly buildings left over from an earlier era, full of elderly
patients who are not necessarily getting the best possible treatment.

They also tend to be in county towns or rural areas where proximity counts for
more than it does in the cities. Such areas are Conservative or Liberal
Democrat, and are deemed undeserving because the local population is not
disadvantaged, except by political affiliation.

So while the Government declares that it is in favour of community hospitals, it
is not talking about the jam and flag-day type. Nor is it even talking about
building its new-style community hospitals in the same places as the old ones,
or (in most cases) converting the old into the new.

But the confusion, quite possibly deliberate, has served its political purposes
by reducing controversy. Nobody wants to stand up in a crowded town hall and say
that the hospital the locals so highly prize is medically obsolete, even if it
is. So obfuscation is the order of the day.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              467 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

Thousands said turned away from hospital during Bahrain anti-government protests

LENGTH: 489 words


Excerpt from report by Alicia De Haldevang entitled "SMC chaos revealed"
published in English by Bahrain newspaper Gulf Daily News website on 12 April

Hundreds of surgeries were postponed and thousands of patients were turned away
from Bahrain's biggest hospital due to the occupation by anti-government
protesters, it has emerged.

A total of 700 surgeries at Salmaniya Medical Complex (SMC) had to be called off
and 5,000 patients were stopped from entering the complex, acting Health
Minister Dr Fatima Al-Balushi revealed yesterday.

The hospital became a key base for anti-government protesters between 17
February and 17March, causing major disruption to the country's health service.
Dr Al-Balushi revealed security forces even found machine guns abandoned by
protesters inside the hospital during a government operation to reclaim it last
month.

She is now urging anyone who witnessed abuses at the hospital during that time
to come forward to help with ongoing investigations. "We ask witnesses to come
forward with photographs and video footage as evidence, so that the (probe)
committee can carry out a full investigation of actions carried out by doctors
and nurses who neglected their duties," she told a press conference yesterday
attended by local and international media.

"If a person is innocent then they will be allowed to go back to work as normal.

"However, if it is proven that they played a part in the takeover of SMC, their
medical licence will be taken away."

The ministry has already suspended the medical licences of 30 doctors and
nurses, while another 150 are under investigation for their alleged role in
causing chaos at the facility.

Dr Al-Balushi revealed two anti-government protesters died at SMC after medical
staff actually made their existing wounds worse to exaggerate their injuries for
news cameras. She said doctors and nurses deliberately harmed patients who had
been admitted for emergency treatment, but declined to provide details of the
victims.

The acting minister, who is also Bahrain's social development minister, said
protesters had turned the hospital into a political headquarters - depriving
treatment to thousands of people.

"This group controlled SMC and transformed it into a political centre in line
with their political views, using political slogans in the hospital," she told a
press conference at the Information Affairs Authority, Isa Town, yesterday.
"They deprived people, Bahrainis and (foreign) residents, of medical care and
threatened patients' lives.

"The hospital was also turned into a media studio, with certain television
channels operating from SMC wards -fabricating stories to influence public and
international opinion."

Although the hospital remains under tight security, Dr Al Al-Balushi said its
services -as well as those at all other healthcare facilities - had now returned
to normal. [Passage omitted]

Source: Gulf Daily News website, Manama, in English 12 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              468 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               November 08, 2002

Loyalists recover stolen computer;

SECTION:  Pg. 13

LENGTH: 128 words


A MATER Hospital spokesman last night confirmed that a laptop computer stolen
from the hospital earlier this week has been returned.

A statement from the Ulster Political Research Group (west Belfast branch) said
that it had recovered the laptop computer which had been stolen from the Belfast
hospital earlier this week.

The computer, which is understood to have contained research data, was returned
to the Crum Road hospital on Wednesday night.

A hospital spokesman said that the computer did not contain any personal details
of patients.

"The UPRG would appeal to young people and criminal elements to allow the vital
services of the Mater Hospital to be delivered without these hindrances and
shameful acts, " spokesman John White said.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited


                              469 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      May 22, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Defiant board stands by its man: 'Levine's a doer and we should give him a
chance,' trustees insist

BYLINE: MARK GOLLOM; WITH FILES FROM DAWN WALTON; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN; CANADIAN
PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / Front


The board of trustees is standing by its man.

With a public apology for "inadvertently opening wounds" in the unity debate and
a promise that David Levine won't espouse his political views, the Ottawa
Hospital Board of Trustees unanimously reaffirmed his appointment as chief of
the amalgamated Civic and General hospitals.

At a press conference at the Civic site of the Ottawa Hospital, chairman Nick
Mulder said the board had "agreed to stand firm in its decision" to appoint Mr.
Levine, insisting his political affiliation is irrelevant.

The hiring of Mr. Levine, who ran unsuccessfully as a candidate for the Parti
Quebecois in 1979, has drawn widespread criticism from the community.

For the past year, the experienced Montreal hospital administrator has been
serving as delegate general for the government of Quebec in New York City. He
will begin his $ 330,000-a-year job on June 15, six weeks earlier than
originally scheduled, to allow him time to ease his transition into the
position.

Hundreds of people have threatened to stop donating money to the hospital if an
alleged separatist retains the job. A Citizen poll indicated 52 per cent of
respondents want Mr. Levine to resign.

"The board will not discriminate against Mr. Levine on the basis of his
political affiliation," Mr. Mulder said, adding the board had not anticipated
the anger over Mr. Levine's hiring.

"We apologize to the community for inadvertently opening wounds on the serious
issue of Canadian unity. We commit to you that we will work diligently to earn
your trust and respect."

The board has received "overwhelming community support" to stick to its
decision, Mr. Mulder said. He explained that the board had received hundreds of
calls of support, including promises of financial contributions from people who
have never donated before.

"A lot of people want to work with us to make it happen. Although there may be
people who do not want to work with us, and I may understand that, a lot of
people support what we're doing," he said.

The decision to continue supporting Mr. Levine was made during a private meeting
attended by 28 of the 32 board members Wednesday night.

"We went through what we heard (at a public meeting) on Tuesday night,
considered the implication of what would happen if we dismissed him," said board
member Sol Shinder.

He said the board was more worried about finding a new chief administrator than
it was about coming up with financial compensation for Mr. Levine if he was
fired.

"If we turned around and dismissed him at this point, we'd have to start this
process all over again and it would set this hospital back at least one year,
and that would be horrendous in terms of patient care in this community," he
said.

He said Mr. Levine, who did not attend yesterday's press conference, had
indicated he would not resign.

"We discussed other options, but the people in the board always kept coming back
(to the question): 'What was wrong with the decision we made?' We (were) looking
for the best person for the job and we found the best person for the job," Mr.
Mulder said.

He added that if those who oppose Mr. Levine's appointment met him, their fears
would be alleviated.

"Everybody who has met him is aware that this is a very capable and dynamic
person. He's articulate and thoughtful and he's a doer and we should give him a
chance."

He strongly argued that credentials should be the first and most important
criterion in hiring an administrator.

"If we're going to become ... one of the best health-care facilities in Canada,
we have to start off with the first criteria of competence. ... We wanted the
best person. If we settle for second best, we are going to have lousy
health-care service."

He said he didn't know Mr. Levine's political affiliation and claimed it was
irrelevant.

"It doesn't matter. I don't think the guy is there to wreck the country, not at
all. But why does it matter?"

However, Mr. Mulder said Mr. Levine agreed with the board's insistence that he
not use his position to promote his political views, a condition that had been
imposed when he was originally hired.

"We would do that no matter what. If you worked for me and you got involved in
politics I'd say, 'Get out.' " he said.

Mr. Shinder called Mr. Levine a "soft sovereigntist" whose political views will
not affect his work for the hospital.

"He will not engage in any political activity in this job or he's gone. I have
said that clearly to him."

Mr. Mulder refused to comment on what people have called a McCarthy-like
atmosphere surrounding the appointment of Mr. Levine. Nor would he comment on
Premier Mike Harris's comment that the board would be better off hiring a
foreigner than a separatist.

Board member Peter Clark blamed the furore over Mr. Levine's hiring on the
pressure to quickly hire a solid administrator. "Quite frankly, this was not
handled as neatly as one would ask.

"In hindsight, it was wrong."

He acknowledged that anger is still out there but added that a lot of people are
intentionally stirring things up. "There are some people out there organizing
the anger and that's unfortunate, unpleasant and unCanadian."

Sharon Sutherland, a professor of political science at Carleton University, said
she is saddened by the controversy surrounding Mr. Levine's appointment.

"Generally, a political science perspective on it would be that the political
affiliation of a hospital administrator wouldn't matter," she said. "These are
very odd circumstances, ... where people feel so strongly about the Quebec
connection."

The debate is unprecedented, she said.

"He ran in an election 20 years ago for a political party that wasn't an
outlawed political party.

"He didn't break any laws. It's an accepted form of political expression. ... If
I run for the NDP in my youth, does that mean I can't administer a hospital or
that that I'm going to give all the money away and I can't be in charge of a
welfare program?" asked Ms. Sutherland.

Mr. Shinder said the board never considered resigning over the controversy.

"I'm not going to be pressured into resigning," he said.

"Do I look like a guy who is going to quit?" said Mr. Mulder.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1998

LENGTH: 1042 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: David Levine refused to resign after the controversy
erupted.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              470 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright (c) 1985 Yale University
                           Yale Journal on Regulation

                                  SPRING, 1985

                             2 Yale J. on Reg. 263

LENGTH: 13810 words

ARTICLE: Slouching Towards National Health Insurance: The New Health Care
Politics

NAME: James A. Morone * and Andrew B. Dunham **

BIO:



   * Assistant Professor of Political Science, Brown University.


   ** Assistant Professor of Political Science, The Colorado College.  The
authors are listed in random order.  We would like to thank the editorial staff
of the Yale Journal on Regulation for its many valuable and sensitive
contributions to this article; we are particularly grateful to Jon Neiditz and
David Shapiro.  In addition, we would like to thank the following colleagues who
have commented on earlier drafts: Lawrence Mead, William Glaser, Theodore
Marmor, Roger Cobb, Thomas Anton, Deborah Stone, Frank Thompson, and Harvey
Sapolsky.  Versions of this paper were presented at the American Political
Science Convention, the Southern Political Science Convention, Columbia
University, Brown University, and The Colorado College.

 TEXT:
 [*263]  The politics of health care are undergoing a quiet transformation.
Relentless inflation in medical costs  n1 has prompted a succession of
government cost control programs.  Each has been widely evaluated for economic
ramifications and medical effects; this paper is about their political
consequences.

   The most recent government attempt to control costs is a change in the way
Medicare  n2 pays hospitals.  The reform, known as Diagnosis-Related Groups
(DRGs),  n3 was originally sponsored by bureaucrats in the Health Care Financing
Administration (HCFA).  DRGs passed through Congress at the legislative
equivalent of the speed of light: unveiled in late December  [*264]  1982,  n4
introduced as legislation in late January,  n5 passed in March,  n6 signed by
the President in April;  n7 by October 1983, Medicare began to use the
extraordinarily complex DRG system to pay hospitals.

   The introduction of DRGs is a technical change in Medicare payment procedures
that seems trivial compared to comprehensive reform proposals like universal
national health insurance or price competition in a restructured health care
marketplace.  Furthermore, a review of the DRG system's predecessor in New
Jersey suggests that the new federal program will not sufficiently reduce
inflation in Medicare costs and that it may bankrupt many hospitals.  Yet, this
scarcely noticed, swiftly legislated change in Medicare reimbursement may
establish the political conditions for a national health system.  Ronald Reagan
may inadvertently produce what Harry Truman and Lyndon Johnson could not: a
government-centered hospital system providing universal coverage.

   This article suggests how.  We begin with the politics of hospital rate
regulation in New Jersey, analyzing its development from industry domination
through a regulatory mechanism which resembles the current Medicare, to the
state-centered system that uses DRGs to set prices for all payors in all
hospitals.  We then turn to the adoption of DRGs on the national level, applying
the political lessons we drew from New Jersey's experience and analyzing the
consequences of DRGs on national health politics.  Finally, we suggest that the
traditional model of hospital regulation -- powerful interest groups dominating
a pliant government -- should be replaced by a model in which the groups are
dependent on largely autonomous government officials: the evolution of interest
group liberalism into state autonomy.

   I.  New Jersey Discovers DRGs  n8

   In the late 1960's, New Jersey faced dilemmas typical of the American health
care economy: alarming inflation, inadequate care for the poor,  [*265]
pressure on the state Medicaid  n9 budget, insurers who were uneasy over rising
hospital charges, and hospitals that were beginning to jockey for competitive
advantage.  Two powerful interests began to lobby the legislature for
assistance.

   Blue Cross,  n10 the largest private insurer in the state,  n11 was caught
between politics and inflation.  Its premiums were subject to the approval of
the Insurance Commissioner,  n12 assuring media attention and public resistance
to every increase.  State officials kept Blue Cross premiums down while rising
hospital prices forced its payments up.  By 1969 it reported a $ 13 million
deficit.  n13 Blue Cross sought legislative relief, arguing that if government
were to restrict its income, government should also limit its payments;
regulated premiums should be matched by regulated hospital rates.

   The hospitals, led by the New Jersey Hospital Association, vigorously
resisted government interference with their billing.  Like health care providers
throughout the United States, they had long insisted on their autonomy.  n14
However, in order to mollify Blue Cross, stave off government intervention, and
relieve individual hospitals from billing disputes with Blue Cross, the Hospital
Association established a voluntary review of hospital budgets.  Predictably, a
non-binding review directed by hospital officials did not appreciably reduce the
inflation in hospital costs.

   The hospitals had their own political agenda: They sought certificate of need
legislation.  n15 This program seeks to limit overall health care costs by
[*266]  prohibiting the construction of unnecessary health care facilities.  The
New Jersey hospitals seized on certificate of need as a form of franchise
monopoly which could protect them from the competition of new or expanding
institutions.  They were anxious for the authority to proscribe new facilities
but, as with rate review, they sought to regulate themselves rather than
relinquish authority to the government.

   In 1971, after three years of negotiation and compromise, legislation gave
hospitals their certificate of need program -- nominally administered by the
government -- and Blue Cross its rate regulation.  n16 The law empowered the
Commissioners of Health and Insurance to set the rates that Blue Cross and
Medicaid paid for hospital services.  n17 In practice, however, the Hospital
Association simply continued to operate its own review,  n18 now cloaked in the
legitimacy of public law.  The commissioners relied entirely on the
recommendations of Hospital Association reviewers and routinely accepted their
findings.  n19

   Both the legislative process and its outcome fit traditional models of
political behavior.  The most interested and influential private parties pressed
their interests before the legislature, bargained with each other, received a
small benefit, and appeared to lose nothing significant.  The result seemed to
be an incremental change in policy.  Once the bargain was struck, public
authority was ceded to the hospital industry itself.  Hospital officials
dominated both planning and rate setting.  Public power was simply used to
enforce private choices.  Regulation was "acquired by the industry and . . .
operated primarily for its benefit."  n20

   However, despite appearances, the politics of regulation were changing in a
profound fashion.  The new law gave the state the power to inspect and judge
individual budget lines in each hospital.  This power was immediately returned
to the hospital industry, but that merely obscured the fact  [*267]  that the
Department of Health now had formal authority over what hospitals did and how
efficiently they did it.  The state had quietly penetrated the private world of
the New Jersey hospitals.

   Three years later, in 1974, a public interest group reported the shocking
news: The Hospital Association was conducting government rate reviews -- the
regulated were regulating themselves.  n21 In the atmosphere immediately
following Watergate, the report -- Bureaucratic Malpractice -- set off a
sensation.  Newly elected Governor Brendan Byrne made it his health policy
guide.  His Commissioner of Health, Joanne Finley, sat through her confirmation
hearings with the expose conspicuous at her side.  Following one recommendation
in the report, the Department of Health took control of hospital rate review,
though it had to borrow the forms from the Hospital Association to do so.  n22

   State bureaucrats now had a mechanism with which to try to contain Blue Cross
and Medicaid costs.  They began to employ it immediately, proposing only a 2.5%
increase in 1975 hospital rates.  In contrast, hospital-administered rate review
had permitted increases averaging more than ten percent.  n23 After considerable
conflict with angry hospital administrators, state officials relented somewhat,
approving rate increases that averaged seven percent -- still a low figure by
prior standards.  n24 The New Jersey hospitals had passed out of loose,
industry-dominated regulation into stringent state control over part of the
system (Blue Cross and Medicaid).  In Section II we will describe a similar
evolution in federal health care regulation, which is now seeking to limit
hospital costs by controlling just one payor, Medicare.

   In New Jersey, the consequences of regulating some payors and not others were
swift and dramatic.  Partial regulation produced partial results and
unanticipated difficulties.  Blue Cross and Medicaid benefited; their costs
increased less rapidly.  However, their gain was achieved at the expense of
others.  Most hospitals maintained their income by simply shifting costs to the
commercial payors.  The results were widely compared to squeezing one end of a
balloon; all the air merely rushes to the other end.  The tighter the controls
on Blue Cross and Medicaid, the more the other insurers paid.  Within five
years, the commercial insurers were paying hospitals roughly thirty percent more
than Blue Cross.  n25 The state was also protecting its Medicaid Program at the
expense of the private insurers  [*268]  and patients without insurance.  The
commercial insurers began to call for change.

   Urban hospitals found themselves in growing financial trouble due to their
mix of patients.  They treated a disproportionate number of patients on Blue
Cross and Medicaid,  n26 which paid less than the commercial insurers.  In
addition, many of their other patients paid none or only part of their bills.
n27 Twenty percent of urban hospital patients had no health insurance, and many
more had inadequate coverage.  n28 The hospitals had traditionally apportioned
these bad debts among the other payors.  However, the patients with private
coverage lived in the suburbs, and Blue Cross and Medicaid payments were now
tightly controlled.  The urban hospitals were unable to shift their losses and
bad debts; they had no one to shift them to.  As many as fifteen large hospitals
appeared to be near bankruptcy.  The only hospital that remained in Paterson,
for instance, reported that it could not afford new mops; one in Newark claimed
that it could not make its Social Security contributions.

   Even hospitals which could maintain their revenues found the new system
burdensome.  It was highly bureaucratic and inefficient, involving long rounds
of negotiation between each hospital and the Department of Health.  As late as
May 1979, more than a third of the hospitals had not received their 1978 billing
rates for Medicaid and Blue Cross patients, and rate appeals were still pending
from as early as 1975, the first year of government-managed rate review.  n29
The Hospital Association responded by filing a series of lawsuits  n30 and
publishing pamphlets with titles such as Son of Gobbledegook.

   In short, the new system of regulation was widely unpopular, marked by highly
visible losers and few winners.  Some hospitals approached bankruptcy,
commercial health insurers suffered a severe competitive disadvantage, and, for
all the difficulties, medical inflation persisted because of cost shifting.
Despite the widespread dissatisfaction, none of the affected interests devised a
solution.  In the past, troubled private organizations had often designed public
programs to assist themselves.  Blue Cross had first put rate review on the
public agenda.  Now that the consequences  [*269]  were proving difficult for a
wide range of interests, many called for relief, but none put forward a proposal
to secure it.

   Politically viable solutions had become difficult to find.  It was now clear
that the fates of numerous interests were linked together, that assisting one
was apt to worsen conditions for others.  For instance, regulatory relief for
Blue Cross had come at the expense of other insurance companies, inner city
hospitals, and patients who paid their bills out of pocket.  Adjustments that
favored some of these interests were, in turn, likely to harm others.  Extending
the benefits of rate regulation to the commercial insurers would set back both
the hospitals and Blue Cross; paying for indigent care would benefit hospitals
but increase Medicaid costs.  Many of the affected interests were well-organized
and conscious of the threats posed by the others.  The political setting made it
difficult for one interest group to sponsor a solution that did not alarm other
interests.

   This unstable policy environment presented an opportunity for governmental
entrepreneurs to restructure the hospital system.  The Department of Health
sought to extend its rate-setting authority to all payors in order to prevent
cost shifting and control overall hospital cost inflation.  n31

   In addition, the Department proposed a bold change in rate-setting methods.
In the past, most payors had paid hospitals the "usual, customary and
reasonable" charges for whatever treatment the hospital provided.  This payment
method created a perverse financial incentive to increase the cost of health
care: because hospitals were paid for the care they actually delivered, they
made more money by providing more services.  Because rate-setting by the state
was also based on the services provided by the hospital,  n32 rate regulation
had not solved the problem.  In addition, in setting per diem rates for
individual hospitals, the existing regulation had resulted in long negotiations,
delays, and arbitrary rates.

   The Department of Health moved to solve these problems by proposing
legislation that pegged payments in advance to the type of case treated rather
than the number of days spent in the hospital.  n33 The reimbursement mechanism
it proposed was based on DRGs.  Put simply, DRGs classify all illnesses into 467
categories or "diagnostic groups." A single price is set for each DRG, based on
the average hospital bill for patients in that DRG among roughly similar
hospitals.  Hospitals receive only a  [*270]  fixed price per patient, set by
the DRG appropriate for that patient's diagnosis.  Payment is not affected by
what services are actually provided or what they cost the hospital.  Hospitals
that deliver care for less than the DRG amount keep the difference.  Those with
costs above the price are forced to seek economies -- fewer tests, shorter
hospital stays, better management -- or lose money.  In theory, then, hospitals
are driven to become more efficient by cutting their costs.

   The proposal would give state bureaucrats a powerful role in hospital
finance.  They would set the prices charged for all patients in all hospitals.
Hospital income would be completely controlled by the state.  Even hospital
endowments -- long an emblem of success and community support -- would be
swallowed into a state fund.

   The hospitals vociferously opposed this threat to their autonomy and to their
cost-shifting escape valve.  They had found government regulation of part of
their income burdensome and they lobbied hard to block its extension.  The
hospitals were assisted by Blue Cross, which sought to maintain its advantage
over the unregulated insurers.  New Jersey legislators, facing a controversial
proposal that was vigorously opposed by the entire hospital industry as well as
Blue Cross, did not report the bill out of committee.  n34

   Although the bill was defeated in New Jersey, it caught the attention of
federal officials in Washington.  HCFA, which oversees Medicare and Medicaid,
had been seeking state experiments in controlling hospital costs.  It granted
the New Jersey Department of Health $ 3 million with which to design an
all-payor DRG program.  n35 In the meantime, the difficulties of partial
regulation as well as the demands for reform persisted.

   Two years later, the Department of Health tried again.  n36 This time
Department officials added a provision to the bill designed to gain political
support: the cost of patients who did not fully pay their bills -- uncompensated
care -- would be split among all payors and factored into the rates.  n37 For
the first time, treating an uninsured patient would pay a hospital as much as
treating one covered by a commercial carrier.

   The new proposal significantly altered the political coalitions.  It was an
unambiguous reprieve for the urban hospitals, which embraced the new plan.  n38
Their administrators -- the most outspoken were extremely articulate nuns --
gave gripping legislative testimony.  Motivated by the cost-shifting,  [*271]
the private insurance companies joined the coalition, their actuarial tables
forming a somber counterpoint to the dramatic stories about ghetto hospitals.
HCFA provided further support by promising to waive the normal Medicare payment
procedure so that state officials could set rates for all payors, including
Medicare.  Crucially, the Medicare waiver was expected to be worth an extra $ 60
million in federal funds, since Medicare would assume a share of the
uncompensated care.  n39 Opponents of the proposal were put in the politically
difficult position of arguing against added federal funds for urban hospitals
that unquestionably needed assistance in providing health care for the poor.

   Many hospital administrators continued to oppose this government encroachment
on their institutions.  However, opposing the proposed legislation would have
split the Hospital Association.  n40 A united hospital industry had defeated a
similar bill; a divided one could only bargain over its terms.  n41 Blue Cross
officials also understood the new political realities and, extracting what they
could, acquiesced.  n42

   The law passed easily.  n43 A system in which DRGs set hospital prices for
all payors would be implemented in three phases between 1980 and 1982.  n44
Hospitals anxious to participate were included in the first group.  The tactical
consequence was a fresh opportunity for political opponents.  The most adamant
advocates of the all-payor DRG system were included immediately; others were
then free to oppose further implementation.

   The Hospital Association returned to the legislature arguing that so radical
an innovation should proceed more slowly.  It proposed suspending  [*272]
implementation after the first year and waiting until the system could be
appraised.  It also charged that the Department of Health was exceeding its
statutory authority: Neither the legislation nor the testimony that preceded it
had ever mentioned DRGs.  Though the Department of Health, funded by HCFA, had
been preparing a DRG system for two years, the term did not appear in the
tersely worded bill that the Department had submitted.  Even the general notion
of paying hospitals on the basis of the cases they treated was mentioned only
elliptically.  n45

   The legislators were annoyed by the controversy.  They had not heard of DRGs
and had only a vague understanding of the bill they had passed.  Legislative
hearings were scheduled.  Before they could be held, however, a letter arrived
from HCFA: the federal government wanted a DRG experiment.  n46 Without it, HCFA
would not grant a Medicare waiver; New Jersey would lose its estimated $ 60
million, the opportunity to set rates for all payors, and its plan for covering
uncompensated care.  Extraordinarily, a coalition of federal and state
bureaucrats were forbidding the New Jersey Legislature from tampering with the
implementation of a law that it had passed.  The legislature meekly complied.
One branch, the Assembly, passed a resolution merely condemning the
implementation process.  The legislators had neither the political incentives
nor the technical expertise to seek alternatives to the all-payor DRG system
that was already partly in place.

   The Assembly resolution symbolizes a lesson that DRG opponents swiftly
learned: Once the program began to operate, it became difficult for interest
groups to shape policy.  n47 The free flow of legislative politics, dominated by
elected representatives who prefer compromise to conflict, had ended.  The
traditional pattern of bureaucratic politics, in which industry dominates
administrators, never emerged.  Instead, the industry found itself confronting
government officials intent on controlling costs.  n47

    [*273]  For physicians the new program was a sharp departure.  Despite all
the worry over inflation, medical judgment had remained largely beyond the reach
of public policy.  Now DRGs denied hospitals full reimbursement when physicians
prescribed more services than their colleagues.  Hospital administrators knew
exactly which physicians were losing money for their institutions.  The extra
test or the additional hospital day was no longer a simple matter of individual
professional judgment;  n48 hospitals would now make more by pressuring their
physicians to do less.  State officials were using their new role in hospital
finance to reshape the patterns of medical practice.

   The hospitals of New Jersey were suddenly thrust into a system dominated by
bureaucrats working for the Department of Health.  One incident illustrates the
point.  When DRGs were implemented, officials were immediately confronted with a
public relations debacle over an anomalous case: A finger broken in a softball
game led to a $ 6,000 bill for one night in a hospital.  The incident received
widespread publicity.  The media had been hard-pressed to explain the all-payor
DRG system, but it was simple to understand a government cost control effort
that resulted in $ 6,000 fingers.  In fact, a pin had been inserted in a joint,
placing the patient in a DRG dominated by costly hip operations.  The incident
may have comforted opponents of the program, but in reality it only demonstrated
the extent of the state's new authority.  Government officials made adjustments
while hospital officials, powerless and embarrassed by the publicity, could only
exhort them to act swiftly.

   The New Jersey hospital system had evolved from one dominated by providers
and marked by indifferent state efforts to control costs, to one in which the
state exerted stringent regulation over part of the system.  n49 That situation
proved enormously unstable.  Marked by insolvent urban hospitals, widespread
cost shifting, and continued inflation, it lasted less than five years.  In the
following section we argue that the federal system has now reached a very
similar point.  In New Jersey, partial regulation quickly created the political
conditions that led to a government-dominated hospital system.  Is the national
experience with partial regulation likely to be any different than New Jersey's?
In Section II we argue that the problems, the politics, and the policy outcomes
are likely to be very similar.

    [*274]  II.  DRGs and the Politics of Medicare

   The passage and implementation of Medicare in 1965  n50 fit the traditional
pattern of American medical politics: industry domination.  The law begins by
forbidding government intrusion into the practice of medicine  n51 -- an
affirmation of professional autonomy that precedes any statement of entitlement
or broader purpose.  The implementation of the Act was even more clearly
dominated by the industry.  Reimbursement standards were loose and extremely
generous; Medicare paid the "current costs" of services, including "all
necessary and proper expenses."  n52 Partly as a consequence,  n53 Medicare
outlays soared, exacerbating a general medical inflation.

   The same political dynamic that created the problem confounded its solution.
A succession of strategies designed to contain costs was unsuccessful, at least
in part because each was dominated by health care providers.  Voluntary health
planning agencies, established in 1966,  n54 were directed largely by local
hospital administrators  n55 and proved ineffectual.  n56 Six  [*275]  years
later, Congress established review boards designed to identify and limit
excessive use of Medicare services.  n57 However, deferring to medical power and
expertise, Congress vested judgments about appropriate use in physician boards
which were generally reluctant to criticize colleagues.  n58 The certificate of
need agencies, mandated nationally in 1974, were given highly circumscribed
authority and often served the interests of local providers.  n59 In 1979,
Congress turned aside the Carter Administration's cost containment proposal
partly in deference to the industry's "Voluntary Effort" at controlling health
care costs.  n60

   A.  The Adoption of DRGs by Medicare

   In the absence of more powerful measures, costs continued to rise.  n61
Between 1967 and 1982, Medicare expenditures for inpatient hospital services
grew at an average annual rate of 19.2%.  n62 In the four years that followed
the industry's "Voluntary Effort," Medicare and Medicaid outlays grew from $ 51
billion to $ 83 billion.  n63 Even with the stringent limits mandated by
Congress in 1982,  n64 Medicare threatened to bankrupt its trust fund by 1988
and exacerbate the federal deficit.  n65 The mounting costs generated strong
political pressures for a solution.

    [*276]  In September 1982, Congress ordered the Department of Health and
Human Services to propose a reform in Medicare reimbursement.  n66 HCFA (which
is within the Department of Health and Human Services) had been supporting
research, development, demonstrations, and evaluations in cost control since the
early 1970's.  n67 The New Jersey DRG system was one of its demonstration
projects.  In December 1982, HCFA proposed to Congress a nationwide DRG system
for Medicare.  n68 Congress, anxious for a remedy, quickly approved the plan.
n69

   Federal officials finally had an effective mechanism with which to try to
control Medicare costs.  To that end, they could use DRGs in two analytically
separate ways.  By providing a fixed rate, set in advance, DRGs may promote
efficiency in the long run by giving hospitals an incentive to deliver less
expensive care.  However, DRGs can also be used to reduce program costs
immediately; officials can employ them as a price control device, directly
reducing the amount Medicare pays for hospital services.  Like the New Jersey
Department of Health in 1975, federal officials immediately began to use their
rate-setting mechanism to press down hospital prices.  Originally, the statute
mandated that 1985 DRG prices would rise by the inflation rate in the "market
basket" of goods and services that hospitals buy, plus an additional one percent
for advances in technology.  n70 Before Congress took action, the Reagan
Administration reversed itself and pressed for elimination of the one percent.
In the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, Congress reduced the technology allowance
to 0.25%.  n71

   That reduction was just the start of the squeeze.  The Secretary of Health
and Human Services announced that the 1985 rise in Medicare DRG prices would be
5.6%  n72 -- extremely low by past standards.  In the 1986 budget, the Reagan
Administration is pressing still further, proposing  [*277]  to freeze DRG
prices in 1986 at their 1985 levels.  n73 What is striking is how quickly
federal officials began squeezing DRG payments to hospitals.

   Industry resistance may occasionally moderate cuts in Medicare prices.  For
instance, the Administration relented somewhat from the prices that it had
proposed for 1985, in part because it was facing an election.  However, the
political setting has changed.  Hospital officials must now contend with HCFA
over prices that they once set themselves with only loose federal supervision.
Rate determinations are being made in bureaucratic arenas by administrators who
are more concerned with inflation and deficits than with pacifying medical
constituents.

   Nevertheless, there has been no broad antipathy to bureaucrats, complex
regulations, or the squeeze on Medicare rates.  Rather, the new system is
invoking the rhetoric and symbols of market competition.  Forbes introduced the
stringent regulation of Medicare prices with a headline that trumpeted,
"[H]ospitals have finally been pushed off the dole and into competition. . . .
Some may not survive. . . ."  n74

   The new Medicare is designed in a way that makes marketplace rhetoric
plausible.  Since payments for each DRG are based on the industry's average
costs, hospitals are pitted in a form of indirect competition with one another.
In theory, the more efficient hospitals will provide care for less than the
industry average and turn a profit on their Medicare patients.

   B.  The Instability of Medicare DRGs

   Partly because the symbols of market competition make DRG price regulation
widely acceptable, officials have been able to seek short-term Medicare cost
savings by limiting reimbursement levels.  However, attempting to reduce costs
in this manner inevitably establishes the conditions that will undermine the
Medicare DRG system: insolvency of urban hospitals, cost shifting, and
ultimately persistent inflation.

   Precisely the same dynamic that threatened to crush the urban hospitals in
New Jersey is now set into motion across the United States.  Even before DRGs,
Medicare payments did not fully cover hospitals' costs.  n75 The  [*278]
present Medicare squeeze will worsen the disparity.  Inner city and rural
hospitals with many Medicare patients will experience large losses on these
patients.  Typically, these hospitals also have a large number of indigent
patients.  As in New Jersey, they cannot shift their uncompensated costs; they
do not have enough paying customers to shift them to.

   Many of these hospitals will be pushed toward ruin.  n76 While DRGs
ostensibly thrust hospitals into competition, the real world of DRGs is a good
deal more Calvinist -- redemption and perdition turn on a number of factors
entirely beyond a hospital's control.  The competition of the new Medicare DRGs
will be the same competition that was induced by partial rate regulation in New
Jersey: the competition for the right mix of patients.  n77 Winning and losing
will be less a consequence of efficiency than of who -- if anyone -- is paying
the bills.  n78

   Hospitals with fewer Medicare recipients will have the same incentive as
their New Jersey predecessors did in a partially regulated system: to shift
their excess costs to the payors.  n79 Prices for the unregulated payors will
swiftly balloon.  The differential between regulated and unregulated payors in
New Jersey reached thirty percent in six years; the same forces are now at work
across the nation.  Congress is already hearing the balloon metaphors.  n80 Once
again the commercial insurers will be paying  [*279]  for a government attempt
to control its program costs while failing to address the underlying problem of
general medical inflation.

   Commercial insurers will pass on the costs, largely to corporations which pay
insurance premiums for their employees.  Corporations and labor unions are
already troubled by rising health care costs;  n81 soaring rates will
substantially increase their concern.  Many will demand action.  n82 Some may
seek other ways to reduce the cost of health benefits, such as reducing coverage
or self-insuring.  These moves, in turn, will increase the alarm of the
hospitals and commercial insurers, respectively.

   With many costs simply shifted, medical inflation will continue.  Although
DRGs reduce the incentives to be profligate with Medicare funds, there is no
change in the hospitals' incentives regarding other payors.  To the extent that
hospitals continue to buy excessive and expensive goods and services for their
other patients, the "market basket" cost of hospital care will continue to rise
and Medicare will remain under the steady pressure of rising hospital costs.
n83 In addition, although DRGs give government officials considerable leverage
over price, they provide no control over volume.  As the population ages and
intensity of treatment for the elderly increases, Medicare costs will continue
to rise.  n84 Even with DRGs, Medicare is still projected to be the fastest
growing major federal domestic program.  n85

   In short, Medicare DRGs are likely to be devastating for hospitals that treat
mainly Medicare beneficiaries and patients who cannot fully pay their bills.
The Medicare DRG program will threaten the commercial health insurers and
constitute a growing problem to the corporations that pay the insurance
premiums.  For all the problems it creates, the program will prove insufficient
to balance the Medicare trust fund or to ease the  [*280]  federal deficit.  The
present DRG system will generate pressure for its reform.

   C.  The New Politics of National Health Insurance

   The present DRG system is unstable: Both the number of politically powerful
losers and the New Jersey precedent suggest that a wide array of interests will
press Congress for action.  This coalition will include influential constituents
of even a conservative Republican Administration, most notably large business
corporations.  The public sector is likely to join private interests in seeking
comprehensive reform: state governments troubled by Medicaid costs, local
officials alarmed about the survival of urban hospitals, HCFA administrators
concerned about Medicare costs (and not averse to enhancing their role and
power), and a Congress and President concerned about the federal deficit.
Inaction will exacerbate the difficulties and demands for reform.

   When a future Congress or blue-ribbon Presidential Commission confronts these
problems, where can it turn?  There will continue to be few plausible
alternatives, even fewer politically expedient ones.  However, there may now be
a health policy option that conforms to the peculiar requirements of American
political reform.  The most likely reform is what occurred in New Jersey: an
extension of DRGs to cover all payors, factoring into the rates the cost of
uncompensated care.  Whatever the substantive merits of the program, its
politics will make it compelling.  It can plausibly promise two desirable
outcomes that will generate the political support necessary for its adoption:
medical cost control and financial relief for hospitals that serve the poor.

   Setting uniform prices for all payors would eliminate the cost shifting that
undermines current efforts to control medical inflation.  In addition, the
incentives for efficiency built into a prospective DRG system would apply fully
to treatment of all patients, not just publicly supported ones.  Public
officials would wield a type of monopsony power, balancing the traditional power
of the medical industry over both prices and demand for service.  n86 Regulators
would finally have a mechanism with which to constrain inflation.

   In contrast to most quick solutions offered amidst cost crises, an allpayor
DRG system which factors in the cost of uncompensated care combines an effort to
reduce inflation with assistance to the institutions that serve the poor.
Routinely reimbursing hospitals for bad debts and charity  [*281]  care would
have sweeping ramifications.  For the first time, hospitals throughout the
United States would be paid equally for all patients, regardless of their wealth
or insurance.  For the unsponsored poor and the hospitals that treat them, this
provision would roughly approximate a universal national health insurance.

   Unlike previous public health insurance schemes,  n87 this one would not look
like welfare or socialized medicine.  In fact, it would not directly help the
poor, only the hospitals that serve them -- a politically crucial difference
which is likely to diffuse challenges grounded in antipathy to welfare.  More
important, it is part of a program that is widely perceived not as welfare but
as the symbolic reverse: an effort to thrust free market competition into the
hospital sector.  Largely for these reasons, the reform occurred in New Jersey
with little reference to poverty and none to welfare.  A program that appears to
seek cost control through competition is not apt to trigger the politics of
redistribution -- the broad coalitions that generally mobilize to dispute
welfare proposals in the United States.  n88

   In further contrast to traditional welfare programs, this program requires
little visible extension of public taxes.  An all-payor DRG system imposes a
hidden tax, divided among all insurance premiums, private and public, to pay
hospitals for serving the uninsured.  An occasional academician may argue that
indirect taxes are taxes all the same, but the politics that attend them are
radically different.  The broad antipathy to new taxes is not aroused.

   Equally important, both the extension to all payors and the inclusion of the
cost of uncompensated care could be introduced without legislating sweeping new
health plans.  American politics is far better geared for small adjustments to
existing programs than for large programmatic transformations.  n89 Extending
DRGs would have precisely that unexciting, incremental, technical look.  It
merely extends a method of computing insurance payments that is already in use
for more than a third of hospital revenue.  Past reform proposals have failed in
part because of their sweeping non-incremental appearance.  "Removing the
financial barrier to medicien" -- watchwords of the New Deal and Great Society
-- connotes  [*282]  welfare and big government.  n90 Seeking genuine markets in
the hospital sector employs the correct political symbols but would require bold
new forms of organizational behavior and ambitious, uncertain, long-term changes
throughout the medical economy.  n91 By contrast, extending DRGs to all payors
and including the cost of uncompensated care would sound less like a radical new
program than like a technical adjustment to an existing one.  It differs from
past reform proposals by conforming to the incremental bias of the American
political process.

   But what of the hospital industry?  Is it not likely to present a powerful
political obstacle?  In the past, the hospitals have presented a united
political front, articulated by vigorous trade associations in a relatively
unambiguous voice.  Both the programs they helped design and those they fought
to defeat reinforced their solidarity by distributing benefits and burdens more
or less uniformly across the industry.  n92 Over the past decade, however, their
political unity has begun to decay as the industry has grown more competitive.
The new Medicare system will rapidly erode it further: this payment mechanism is
designed to have an impact that varies across institutions.  Different hospitals
face different economic conditions and consequently have different political
interests.

   The new Medicare will provoke financial crisis for hospitals with many
indigent patients and a limited capacity to shift costs.  These hospitals -- and
the public officials who are concerned about keeping them open -- will welcome
whatever assistance is offered.  Occasional grants may at times provide
temporary relief, but they are not likely to survive federal budget cutting
efforts for long.  n93 In contrast, the most solvent hospitals -- shifting costs
and turning away indigents as they boast about their  [*283]  efficiency -- will
fight further federal encroachment on their revenues.  There will be prestigious
medical centers in each camp.

   Aggressive hospital administrators may even welcome a system in which all
hospital prices are set by DRGs, or at least prefer it to other forms of
government intervention.  An "efficient" hospital that treats patients at lower
than average costs might do quite well.  Health planners may view the outcome as
systems rationalization; in the more traditional rhetoric of American politics,
it is the result of competition in the hospital sector.  Under either label, the
political fissures that have already begun to appear in the hospital industry
are likely to be exacerbated, neutralizing a major political barrier to
government price setting for all payors -- precisely as it did in New Jersey.

   In short, extension of DRGs is likely not for its inherent merits but for its
political advantages.  There will be widespread calls for action in the nation's
health system: government officials, insurers, business corporations, unions,
and some hospitals will seek relief from the current system.  HCFA will have a
solution that extends its power, solves some problems, and is already
administratively in place.  The change appears conservative, merely extending a
mechanism that is in widespread use.  It does not involve visible new taxes,
"untested" new legislation, or the appearance of income redistribution or
welfare.  On the contrary, it is a technical adjustment that is more likely to
mobilize the symbolism of competition and capitalism that of welfare and
socialized medicine.  These features are apt to deflect broad public notice,
much less widespread criticism.  Moreover, it is likely to generate the same
bureaucratic support that propelled it forward, both in New Jersey and into
Medicare.

   Timid, incremental measures are likely to precede the changes we predict.
Refinements in DRG methodology could introduce further technical complexities
(and perhaps a new set of acronyms).  A recurring federal impulse to send the
problem to the state level  n94 will continue to appear, providing the mirage of
a solution that is painless in Washington.  However, the stubborn realities of
medical inflation, rooted deep in the structure and financing of the industry --
and all the consequent political dilemmas that we have noted -- will remain
until comparatively radical action is undertaken.

   Despite the relatively quiescent politics that would accompany the change,
extending DRGs and factoring in the cost of uncompensated care would establish a
national health system of sorts.  Government officials would set rates for all
payors in all hospitals.  These changes would  [*284]  amount to an
unprecedented public intervention into the practice of medicine, and a broad
subsidy for hospital care to the poor.  This outcome approximates the bargaining
systems characteristic of Western European health policies.  n95 Whatever the
effects on American hospitals -- the problems that are cured, the unforeseen
ones that are caused -- the ensuing health care politics are likely to revolve
around government administrators: setting prices, solving problems, reshaping
American medical practice.

   After a half century of political thunder over the socialized medicine
implicit in programs such as Medicare or national health insurance,  n96 the
state is poised to assume a role at the center of the American health care
system.  And yet, in the American fashion, proponents will insist that the state
is not bargaining and setting rates so much as tending a complex formula that
promotes competition and revitalizes health care markets.  Ironically, national
health insurance may arrive quietly, with scarcely an interest demurring.

   III.  The New Health Care Politics: A Dense Environment and the Autonomy of
the State

   We have told the same story in both of the preceding sections.  A series of
apparently incremental reforms -- each responding to immediate problems, each
inadvertently setting the conditions for further change -- have recast the
politics of health care.  In New Jersey, an industry that was powerful and
autonomous in 1970 is now dominated by state officials.  On the federal level, a
similar process is underway.  Health providers with enough political influence
to shape Medicare to their own purposes in 1965 now find that public officials
are using the program to pressure their industry -- the latest step, we have
argued, in an evolution toward the national health insurance that providers have
long battled to avert.  n97

   These are not simply new details of health policy but a change in the
political rules by which it is fashioned.  An entirely new model of politics is
emerging.  The traditional pattern -- powerful private interests dominating a
pliant state -- is now less evident than its reverse -- interests reliant on an
increasingly powerful political center.

    [*285]  A.  The Traditional Model: Industry Dominance

   Private interest groups generally dominated health politics.  They often
initiated political action, setting the public agenda with programs that they
designed  n98 or blocking proposals they perceived as threats.  Their influence
over government officials was predictable.

   Legislators are rewarded for developing allies and avoiding enmity; their
incentives are to shun controversy while distributing benefits to constituents
who are sufficiently organized to remember until the next election.  n99
Hospital and medical associations were well-organized, well-financed, and
attentive to political issues.  Other groups participated in health politics:
liberal reformers battled long and hard to pass Medicare; public interest groups
like the one that disseminated Bureaucratic Malpractice mobilized public
sympathy for reform causes.  In the end, however, the sustained interest of the
health care professionals generally dominated health care legislation.

   The industry's dominance was still more pronounced in bureaucratic arenas.
With its livelihood on the agenda, the industry actively participated in the
time-consuming and arcane politics of administration; the groups that had
mobilized to oppose them in legislative settings rarely pursued issues to the
regulatory agencies.  Industry power was bolstered by expertise; matters of
political administration were routinely turned into technical questions that
only members of the profession seemed equipped to resolve.  n100 The most
interested private parties often dominate or "capture" the public agencies that
oversee them.  n101 In the health system, that dominance was systematic and
pervasive.

   The traditional dynamics of health care politics were rooted in the skewed
representation of American policy-making.  Each group unabashedly pursued its
own self interest, though not all interests were organized or active.  n102 The
most interested parties -- for health issues, health providers -- sustained
their attention and concentrated their resources on the programs that most
affected them.  In addition, the health providers were able to evoke deference
from many other groups.  The political outcome was not mere professional
dominance but a broad ceding of public authority directly to the profession.

    [*286]  This political pattern appeared repeatedly in the preceding
sections.  In New Jersey, for example, Blue Cross proposed rate regulation to
ameliorate its own market position.  The program that emerged was promptly
turned over to the hospitals.  They implemented it by simply continuing their
old rate review under the imprimatur of the Commissioner of Health.  On the
federal level, the Hill-Burton Act financed hospital construction where and when
hospital administrators sought funds for it.  The one burden imposed on
hospitals by the legislation -- a specified amount of charity care -- was simply
left to the discretion of the hospitals.  Regulations implementing charity care
provisions were not written until pressure from litigation made such regulations
valuable to the industry, twenty-five years later.  n103 Though hospitals and
physicians initially opposed the passage of Medicare, they dominated its
implementation.  When, partly as a consequence of their dominance, rising costs
became a public problem, the solutions that were attempted were placed in the
hands of health care providers -- voluntary planning councils,  n104 voluntary
cost controls,  n105 boards of physicians identifying Medicare abuse.  n106

   Insofar as this traditional model is still operating, the prospects for new
programs are clear: the all-payor system in New Jersey, Medicare DRGs, even the
form of national health insurance we predict, will come under steady pressure
from the industry.  Administrative officials will increasingly cater to its
wishes, rates will be set more loosely, and, with time, the programs will be
captured by the industry.  n107 Eventually, the DRG "solution" will be replaced
by another scheme and the cycle will begin again.  n108

   Our expectation is different.  Industry dominance over medical programs is
increasingly difficult to achieve.  Instead, a new model of politics has begun
to appear.  Both sides of the political equation are different; the behavior of
both private interest groups and public officials has begun to change.

    [*287]  B.  The New Interest Group Politics: A Dense Environment

   Programs are captured when interests mobilize to grab benefits while the
costs are diffused over broad populations.  Since those who bear the costs are
not organized around the issue, they are not likely to resist.  n109 Few
political interests concerned themselves, in 1966, over how Medicare would pay
hospitals or, in 1971, over how rate regulation would actually operate in New
Jersey.

   In the new political context -- what we call a dense environment -- groups
find themselves in a network of large, well-organized corporate interests whose
destinies have become visibly linked.  When one jockeys for advantage, there are
clear, often immediate consequences for the others.  Political groups have sharp
incentives to attend to one another's political behavior.  As a result, it is
more difficult for a single interest to dominate even its own regulation.

   A dense interest group environment has three major characteristics.  First,
the most important political actors are large.  Even the small actions of large
organizations can have sweeping effects.  The regulation of Blue Cross payments
in New Jersey quickly pushed the urban hospitals toward insolvency and
threatened corporate insurers.  The sheer size of Blue Cross makes its behavior
consequential for a large number of interests.  Its political victories can
induce widespread losses.

   Second, the interests are well organized.  They have the capacity to acquire
necessary information, improve their strategic position, and oppose the
political demands of other groups.  They are primed for political action.

   In the traditional politics, these first two characteristics -- size and
organization -- lead to capture.  The third dimension of the new politics makes
capture unlikely: the fates of the large organizations are interpenetrated.  The
actions of one affect numerous others.  For instance, the capture of rate
regulation by hospitals would now affect an enormous array of public and private
interests.  State budgets would feel additional pressure from Medicaid.
Medicare costs would rise; the threat to the Medicare trust fund would be
exacerbated; the federal deficit would worsen.  Private insurers, their
marketing decisions complicated by the uncertainty of uncontrolled inflation,
would pass the higher hospital costs on to their corporate clients.
Corporations, in turn, could self-insure or cut employee benefits.  When
corporations self-insure, insurers lose business; when corporations cut
benefits, they risk conflict with unions, and hospitals face  [*288]  more
patients with less insurance.  In a dense environment even capture may rebound
to the hospitals' disadvantage.

   In short, a dense political environment replaces the relationship between
interests seeking benefits and the state distributing them with a far more
intricate system of interaction.  Different organizations -- some in apparently
different sectors of the economy -- are visibly linked.  The narrow pursuit of
individual self interest -- the mainspring of traditional American politics
n110 -- becomes less effective; a narrowly focused distribution of benefits to
mobilized interests becomes more difficult to effect.  In the new political
setting, benefits cannot be allocated to one claimant without regard to others.
Different actors cannot be dealt with in a series of separate transactions.  The
traditional mechanisms of American politics -- interest groups mobilizing for
benefits, seeking to capture government agencies, lobbying for political pork --
now result in stalemate.

   C.  State Autonomy: Bureaucrats at the Political Center

   A dense political environment is unstable.  Groups check each other
politically, but continue to take private actions that send ripples of
undesirable consequences through the interconnected system.  Public problems
such as medical inflation or financing indigent care affect a wide range of
private interests.  Yet solutions are difficult to devise.  Political choices
are full of potential losers cognizant of the potential threats.  Interest
groups face intricate problems while they block one another's policy proposals.

   This setting breaks the traditional politics of industry capture.  Private
interests continue to place issues on the political agenda, lobby for programs
they favor, and assail those that cause them harm.  However, the problems they
face require coordinated, even "counterintuitive" action.  n111

   Though numerous interests were harmed by the partial regulation in New
Jersey, none hit upon a program that would further its own interests without
offending other organized groups.  Many demanded assistance; none developed a
solution.  As their problems mounted, the pressure for action increased.  With
private interests blocking one another, public officials became a likely source
of reform.  Rather than merely responding to private interests, they began to
look for, design and implement new policies that responded to the systemic
difficulties.  In the process, they enhanced their power and advanced their
careers.  They became policy entrepreneurs,  [*289]  identified with the
programs they had sponsored.  "Capture" no longer described their behavior.

   Administrative agencies rather than legislatures are likely to be the crucial
actors in a dense environment.  Politics which demand technical expertise, a
capacity to devise comprehensive programs, and a disposition to deny narrow,
self-interested claims is more apt to be bureaucratic than legislative.
Legislators typically have neither the time, the incentives, nor the expertise
to design complex programs that take account of the intricate interactions of a
dense environment.  The toothless Assembly resolution in New Jersey, condemning
a DRG plan that the legislature would not revoke, demonstrates both the wish to
distribute benefits to a mobilized constituency and the difficulty of doing so
in a dense policy environment.  Although some legislators, relying on expert
staff, may try to play a more active role, most prefer the more traditional one
pressed upon them by their electoral incentives: responding to the narrow
constituent demands that are set before them.  n112 Insofar as they pursue this
role in a dense policy environment, they defer substantive policy choices to the
bureaucracy.  n113

   The result is growing administrative authority over the health care industry.
Public administrators devise new policies, induce legislators to enact them, and
then implement the programs.  Federal officials assist their local counterparts:
recall that DRGs were developed in New Jersey with an HCFA grant, enacted with
HCFA's promise of a Medicare waiver, and fully implemented for all payors when
HCFA insisted on an all-payor experiment.  State and local officials form
associations and open Washington offices in order to influence federal
administrators and lobby Congress.  They behave almost like the private interest
groups of the traditional model, organizing to lobby federal administrators and
legislators for relief from their difficulties.  n114

   The contours of an increasingly autonomous bureaucratic establishment are
unclear.  If the traditional pattern of political deference to mobilized
interests continues, public problems are not likely to be solved.  A growing
[*290]  body of pessimistic commentary postulates continued stalemate,
punctuated by crisis.  n115

   However, in the DRG cases that we described above, administrators seized
their opportunities.  In New Jersey, an extremely technical program was designed
by a loose coalition of federal administrators, state bureaucrats, and policy
researchers both in and out of government.  Taken together, they formed an
"issue network" of specialists searching for solutions to public problems.  n116
There was a steady rotation of these individuals: academic specialists joined
the Department of Health, bringing their former colleagues into public
deliberations; members of the Department of Health moved to jobs with HCFA and
other state governments, extending the network of shared perceptions grounded in
technical training.  In both Trenton and Washington there was a sustained
attention to new proposals from policy entrepreneurs.  n117

   This is in no way to suggest the triumph of expertise over politics,  n118
only that the locus of health care politics has changed to the bureaucracy.
n119 Administrators who shake off the old politics and devise new programs will
not routinely succeed.  However, in the new politics, their failures and partial
successes are likely to result in further penetration of the health industry by
the state.  Public officials will be charged with righting the consequences --
both predictable and unanticipated -- of their own interventions.  n120 In New
Jersey, state responsibility for setting Blue Cross premiums led to increasingly
stringent efforts at partial rate regulation which -- after widespread problems
-- led to state control over all payors for all hospitals.  In Washington, the
financing of health benefits for the elderly contributed to general health care
inflation which led, in turn, to a series of programs culminating in the
stringent regulation of Medicare.  We have predicted that the new Medicare will
result in widespread distress and, eventually, the same type of powerful
intervention that occurred in New Jersey.

    [*291]  The irony of the DRG story is that it emerges from an Administration
that arrived in Washington full of free market rhetoric and promises of relief
from bureaucratic meddling.  Four years later, its major health initiative --
widely pronounced competitive -- thrusts public administrators into the center
of the hospital system.  The bureaucrats' role in the DRG program does not fit
the traditional models of American politics.  Private interests are increasingly
caught in the stalemate of a dense policy environment; they are more and more
reliant on the public officials whom they once dominated.  This new political
configuration, and the instability of the Medicare DRG system it has produced,
set the conditions for the next development: the politically untroubled passage
of a national health insurance system.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Public Health & Welfare LawSocial SecurityMedicaidProvidersPayments &
ReimbursementsHospitalsPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesHospitals

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Between 1965 and 1983, national health care expenditures increased from $
43 billion to $ 355 billion.  Gibson, Levit, Lazenby & Waldo, National Health
Expenditures, 1983, HEALTH CARE FINANCING REV., Winter 1984, at 1, 1.  Hospital
prices outpaced the Consumer Price Index 460% to 188% in that period.
Prospective Reimbursement for Hospitals: Hearings Before the Subcomm. on Health
of the House Comm. on Energy and Commerce, 97th Cong., 2d Sess. 5 (1982)
(statement of Carolyne Davis, Administrator, Health Care Financing
Administration) [hereinafter cited as Hearings].




n2.  Medicare is composed of two separate programs: Part A and Part B.  Part A
is a program of hospital insurance for persons over age 65 which pays for
inpatient hospital care, stays in skilled nursing facilities, and home health
services.  The sole source of funds for Part A is a trust fund financed by a
portion of the Social Security payroll tax; general federal revenues cannot be
used to supplement the trust fund.  Medicare Part B provides optional
supplemental medical insurance which largely pays for physicians' services.
Part B revenues are provided by premiums paid by the enrollees, and by general
federal revenues.  CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, PROSPECTS FOR MEDICARE'S
HOSPITAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND: AN INFORMATION PAPER PREPARED FOR USE BY THE
SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING, 98TH CONG., 1ST SESS. 1 (1983).  Though we
focus on Medicare Part A, our analysis is relevant to Part B as well.




n3.  Briefly, a DRG system classifies each patient by his or her diagnosis into
one of more than 400 categories, or diagnosis-related groups.  Payment is based
on a price set in advance for each group (DRG) rather than on the nature of the
services provided or on the cost of treatment.




n4.  R. SCHWEIKER, REPORT TO CONGRESS: HOSPITAL PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEM FOR
MEDICARE (1982).




n5.  S.1, 98th Cong., 1st Sess., 129 CONG. REC. S89 (1983) (introduced Jan.
26); H.R. 1900, 98th Cong., 1st Sess., 129 CONG. REC. H878 (1983) (introduced
March 3).




n6.  129 CONG. REC. H1787, S4104 (1983) (approved conference version reprinted
in 129 CONG.  REC. H1724-56 (1983)).




n7.  Social Security Amendments of 1983, Pub. L. No. 98-21, §§ 601-07, 97 Stat.
65, 149-72 (1983) (codified at 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395 (West 1983)).




n8.  Section I draws heavily on our research into the politics of hospital
regulation in New Jersey, reported more fully in A. DUNHAM & J. MORONE, THE
POLITICS OF INNOVATION: THE EVOLUTION OF REGULATION IN NEW JERSEY (Health
Research & Education Trust of New Jersey, DRG Evaluation vol. IV-A, 1983)
[hereinafter cited as POLITICS OF INNOVATION]; Morone & Dunham, The Waning of
Professional Dominance: DRGs and the Hospitals, 3 HEALTH AFF. 74 (1984)
[hereinafter cited as DRGs and the Hospitals].  The confidentiality of
interviews conducted at that time precludes their full citation here.  We also
provide no specific citation for certain events described more thoroughly in
POLITICS OF INNOVATION.




n9.  Medicaid is a joint state and federal program that finances medical care
for certain low-income people.  Social Security Act §§ 1901-18, 42 U.S.C. § 1396
(1982). The program is state-administered and varies considerably from state to
state.  All Medicaid programs, however, pay providers directly for general
inpatient and outpatient medical care.  Medicaid is funded jointly by the
federal and state governments.  See HEALTH CARE FINANCING ADMINISTRATION, PUB.
NO. 03156, THE MEDICARE AND MEDICAID DATA BOOK, 1983, at 2-3.




n10.  Each Blue Cross plan is a private health insurer created by special state
enabling legislation, which typically exempts the plan from the general
insurance laws of the state (including the obligation to maintain the reserve
required of commercial insurers) and designates the plan a charitable
organization.  Blue Cross plans are exempt from federal income taxation.  I.R.C.
§ 501(c)(4) (1984).  Such benefits may be based on an image of social reform and
utility that does not seem to correspond to the actual characteristics of Blue
Cross plans.  S. LAW, BLUE CROSS: WHAT WENT WRONG?  9 (1976).




n11.  The relative contributions of payors to hospital care in New Jersey were
recently estimated as: Medicare 40%; Blue Cross 22%; Medicaid 9%; commercial
insurers 15%; others (including self-funded groups, self-paying patients, and
health maintenance organizations (HMOs)) 14%.  HEALTH CARE FINANCING
ADMINISTRATION, PUB. NO. 03170, DIAGNOSIS-RELATED GROUPS: THE EFFECT IN NEW
JERSEY; THE POTENTIAL FOR THE NATION 135 (1984) (Pierce, The Impact of DRGs on
Payers) [hereinafter cited as DIAGNOSIS-RELATED GROUPS].




n12.  N.J. STAT. ANN. § 17:48-9 (West 1963).




n13.  DRGs and the Hospitals, supra note 8, at 75.




n14.  See, e.g., P. STARR, THE SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION OF AMERICAN MEDICINE 347-51
(1982).




n15.  Certificate of need laws prohibit construction or expansion of new health
care facilities, or in some cases the provision of new services, unless such
facilities or services are first approved by the state or an organization such
as a Health Systems Agency, acting pursuant to a state health plan.  In the late
1960's and early 1970's, many states adopted or considered adopting such laws.
Under the National Health Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974, 42
U.S.C. §§ 300k-300t (1982), certificate of need programs have been administered
by the states but regulated by federal law.  For useful general discussions of
certificate of need programs, see Altman, The Politics of Health Care
Regulation: The Case of the National Health Planning and Resources Development
Act, 2 J.  HEALTH POL. POL'Y & L. 560 (1978); D. SALKEVER & R. BICE, HOSPITAL
CERTIFICATE OF NEED CONTROLS (1979); REGULATING HEALTH FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION
(Havighurst ed.  1974).




n16.  Health Care Facilities Planning Act, ch. 136, 138, 1971 N.J. Laws 300, 339
(codified at N.J.  STAT. ANN. §§ 17:48, 26:2H (West 1984)).




n17.  Id., § 18, 1971 N.J. Laws 300, 310-11 (codified as amended at N.J.  STAT.
ANN. § 26:2H-18 (West 1984)).




n18.  See HEALTH CARE FINANCE ADMINISTRATION, PUB. NO. 03034, HEALTH CARE
FINANCING GRANTS AND CONTRACTS REPORT: CASE STUDY OF PROSPECTIVE REIMBURSEMENT
IN NEW JERSEY 7, 58 (1980) [hereinafter cited as CASE STUDY].




n19.  Id. at 5-7.




n20.  Stigler, The Theory of Economic Regulation, 2 BELL J. ECON. & MGMT. SCI.
3,3 (1971).




n21.  R. POWELL, BUREAUCRATIC MALPRACTICE (1974).




n22.  CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 7.




n23.  POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 21-22.




n24.  CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 7.




n25.  POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 32-33.




n26.  J. KELLY & J. O'BRIEN, CHARACTERISTICS OF FINANCIALLY DISTRESSED HOSPITALS
2 (National Center for Health Services Research, Hospital Cost and Utilization
Project, Research Note 3, vol. VI, 1983).




n27.  Id.




n28.  STAFF OF SUBCOMM. ON HEALTH OF THE HOUSE COMM. ON WAYS AND MEANS, 98TH
CONG., 2D SESS., CONFERENCE ON THE FUTURE OF MEDICARE 92 (Comm. Print 1984)
(Lave, Hospital Reimbursement Under Medicare).




n29.  CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 41.




n30.  See N.J.H.A. Political Strategy Committee, Historical Perspective of [sic]
Hospital Rate-Setting in New Jersey (1975) (hospital industry's description of
pending and recent litigation) (on file with the Yale Journal on Regulation).




n31.  Hospital inflation in New Jersey was 11.7% in 1977.  Medicare Hospital
Prospective Payment System: Hearings Before the Subcomm. on Health of the House
Comm. on Ways and Means, 98th Cong., 1st Sess. 112 (1983) (statement of Charles
Pierce, Jr., Deputy Commissioner, New Jersey State Dept. of Health) [hereinafter
cited as Hearings].




n32.  For a description of the complex rate-setting system then in use in New
Jersey, known as SHARE, see POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 26-29.




n33.  Hearing, supra note 1, at 95 (statement of Dorothy Powers, Chairman, New
Jersey Hospital Rate Setting Commission).




n34.  See S. 1454, 196th Leg., 1st Sess. (1976) (on file with the Yale Journal
on Regulation); CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 47.




n35.  See CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 47.




n36.  See S. 446, 198th Leg., 1st Sess. (1978).




n37.  Id., § 10, enacted as Act of July 20, 1978, ch. 83, sec. 10, § 18.d, 1978
N.J. Laws 445, 456 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. § 26:2H-18.d (West 1984)).




n38.  See Where Fixed Hospital Rates are Easting the Pain, BUS. WK., July 25,
1983, at 44, 48.




n39.  It was expected that Medicare and Medicaid would pay shares of the cost of
uncompensated care proportionate to their overall shares of hospital
reimbursement.  The New Jersey Commissioner of Health noted in 1983 that
Medicare was in fact bearing $ 65 million of the $ 170 million uncompensated
care burden during that year.  New Jersey's Hospital Reimbursement System:
Hearing Before the House Select Comm. on Aging, 98th Cong., 1st Sess. 5 (1983)
(statement of J. Richard Goldstein, M.D., Commissioner, New Jersey Dept. of
Health) [hereinafter cited as Hearing].




n40.  See CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 58-59.




n41.  See id. at 59.  For example, the Hospital Association succeeded in
dissuading the Department of Health from expropriating hospital endowments.




n42.  Blue Cross was able to obtain in S. 446 a provision preserving to some
extent its rate differential.  S.  446, § 10, enacted as Act of July 20, 1978,
ch. 83, sec. 10, § 18.b., 1978 N.J. Laws 445, 455 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. §
26:2H-18.b (West 1984)).  Blue Cross also received a series of concessions in a
companion bill, S. 419, enacted as Act of Aug. 2, 1978, ch. 94, 1978 N.J.  Laws
478 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. §§ 17:48-1, :48-6.9, :48-10 (West 1984)).  S.
419 allowed Blue Cross to "experience-rate" groups of insureds which increased
its ability to compete with private insurers.  Id., § 2, 1978 N.J. Laws 478,
479-80 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. § 17:48-6.9 (West 1984)).  S. 419 also
allowed Blue Cross to collect a reserve of 2.5% to cover unexpected payments.
Id., § 3, 1978 N.J.  Laws 478, 480-81 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. § 17:48-10
(West 1984)).  See POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 58-59; CASE STUDY,
supra note 18, at 48, 53.




n43.  Act of July 20, 1978, ch. 83, 1978 N.J. Laws 445 (codified in scattered
sections of N.J. STAT.  ANN. § 26:2H (West 1984)).




n44.  Twenty-six hospitals entered the system in 1980, thirty-five more in 1981,
and the remaining thirty-seven in 1982.  Hearing, supra note 39, at 3 (statement
of J.  Richard Goldstein, M.D., Commissioner, New Jersey Dept. of Health).




n45.  The bill required the rate schedule to provide each hospital with enough
revenue to treat adequately its particular "mix of patients," Act of July 20,
1978, ch. 83, §§ 2.k, 2.1, 5.b, 1978 N.J.  Laws 445, 447, 450 (codified at N.J.
STAT. ANN. §§ 26:2H-2.k, :2H-2.1, :2H-4.1.b (West 1984)), and "case-mix" was
included as a factor in determining periodic adjustments to the cost base
(rates) for each hospital.  Id., § 11.b, 1978 N.J. Laws 445, 457 (codified at
N.J.  STAT. ANN. § 26:2H-18.1.b (West 1984)).




n46.  Letter from Stephen Pelovitz, HCFA Project Officer, to Bruce Vladeck,
Assistant Commissioner of Health in New Jersey (July 11, 1978), described in
POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 80-81.




n47.  Although group lobbying was no longer effective, some commentators argue
that individual hospitals in New Jersey still were able to effect favorable and
unique DRG rates for themselves.  Weiner, Greene & Sapolsky, The Theory and
Practice of DRG Implementation (Oct. 1984) (unpublished draft on file with the
Yale Journal on Regulation).  These authors believe that the same pressures for
individualization of DRG rates for specific hospitals will exist in the national
Medicare DRG system recently enacted, despite its present structure which
permits few individualizing adjustments.  Id.




n48.  See Vladeck, Medicare Hospital Payment by Diagnosis-Related Groups, 100
ANN. INT. MED.  576, 585 (1984).




n49.  I.e., state regulation of Blue Cross and Medicaid reimbursement rates from
1974 to 1978.




n50.  Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Pub. L. No. 89-97, Stat. 286 (1965)
(codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 1395 (1982)).




n51.  Social Security Act § 1801, 42 U.S.C. § 1395 (1982).




n52.  When Medicare was first enacted, it paid hospitals (under Part A) the
"reasonable cost" of their services.  Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Pub. L.
No. 89-97, sec.  102(a), § 1314(b), 79 Stat.  286 (1965) (codified as amended at
42 U.S.C. § 1395f(b)(1) (1982)).  Regulations soon defined "reasonable cost" as
"current costs" including "all necessary and proper expenses." 42 C.F.R. §
405.402 (1966).  In 1972, Congress changed hospital reimbursement to the lesser
of "reasonable cost" and "customary charges," and defined "reasonable cost" as
"the cost actually incurred, excluding . . . any part . . . found to be
unnecessary in the efficient delivery of needed health services. . . ." Social
Security Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. No. 92-603, §§ 223(a), 233(a), 86 Stat.
1329, 1393, 1411 (codified at 42 U.S.C. §§ 1395f(b)(1), 1395x(v)(1)(A) (1982)).




n53.  Medicare reimbursement was at first purely retrospective: payments were
for actual costs incurred.  See supra note 52.  The Social Security Amendments
of 1972 authorized the Secretary of HEW to set prospective limits on
reimbursement of such costs, based on "estimates of the costs necessary in the
efficient delivery of needed health services. . . ." Pub. L. No.  92-603, §
223(b), 86 Stat.  1329, 1393, (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395x(v)(1)(A) (1982)).
Since 1974 the Secretary set prospective limits annually, allowing adjustments
for different types of hospitals.  When a hospital's routine per diem charges
for its Medicare patients were above the limit, the excess was not reimbursed;
however, if the charges fell below the limit, the hospital was reimbursed only
in the amount of the charges.  "Section 223" limits thus offered no incentive to
cut costs below the reimbursement limit.  Because the limit was set at a certain
percentage over the mean costs of similar hospitals, the result was to drive up
the mean cost of hospital care.  See Lundy, Hospital Cost Containment 2, 4-5
(Cong. Research Serv., Issue Brief No. IB82072, Jan. 10, 1983), reprinted in [3
1983 Transfer Binder] BIOETHICS REP. (UPA), at Literature 176, 184.




n54.  Comprehensive Health Planning and Public Services Amendments of 1966, Pub.
L. No. 89-749, 80 Stat. 1180 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 246 (1982)).




n55.  B. EHRENREICH & J. EHRENREICH, THE AMERICAN HEALTH EMPIRE 211 (1970);
Rosenblatt, Health Care Reform and Administrative Law: A Structural Approach, 88
YALE L.J. 243, 306 (1978). See West & Stevens, Comparative Analysis of Community
Health Planning: Transition from CHPs to HSAs, 1 J. HEALTH POL. POL'Y AND L.
173, 177 (1976); see also O'Connor, Comprehensive Health Planning: Dreams and
Realities, 52 MILLBANK MEMORIAL FUND Q. 391, 404 (1974) (study showing that
consumers on comprehensive health planning boards developed affiliation with and
sympathy for health care providers).




n56.  S. REP. NO. 1285, 93d Cong., 2d Sess. (1974), reprinted in 1974 U.S. CODE
CONG. & AD.  NEWS 7842, 7879.




n57.  Social Security Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. No. 92-603, § 249F(b), 86
Stat. 1329, 1429-45, repealed by Peer Review Improvement Act of 1982, Pub. L.
No. 97-248, § 143, 96 Stat. 381, 382-93 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1320c (1982)).




n58.  See P. STARR, supra note 14, at 400-04; Turner, HEW Begins Medical Review;
AMA, Hospitals Mount Opposition, NAT. J. REP., Jan. 19, 1974, at 90.




n59.  National Health Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C.
§§ 300k-300t (1982).  See supra note 15 and accompanying text.




n60.  In December 1977, a "Voluntary Effort" to control health care cost
increases was launched by a number of medical professional organizations,
including the American Hospital Association, the American Medical Association,
the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Associations, the Federation of American Hospitals,
the Health Industry Manufacturers Association, the Health Insurance Association
of America, the National Association of Counties, a consumer affairs
organization and a business representative.  Lundy, supra note 53, at 8.  In
place of the Carter Administration's hospital cost control bill, H.R. 2626, 96th
Cong., 1st Sess. (1979), which would have established mandatory cost controls if
certain voluntary limits were exceeded, the House of Representatives substituted
and passed a bill which merely would have established a commission to monitor
and encourage the "Voluntary Effort." H.R.  5635, 96th Cong., 1st Sess., 125
CONG. REC. 32,716, 32,750, 32,752 (1979) (not enacted into law).




n61.  See supra note 1.




n62.  OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY AND COSTS OF THE
MEDICARE PROGRAM 93 (1984); Hearings, supra note 1, at 4 (statement of Carolyne
Davis, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration).




n63.  Davis, Health Care's Soaring Costs, N.Y. Times, Aug. 26, 1983, at D2, col.
1.




n64.  See Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, Pub. L. No.  97-248,
§ 101, 96 Stat.  324, 331-36 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395 (1982)); S. REP. NO.
494, 97th Cong., 2d Sess. 24, 26, reprinted in 1982 U.S. CODE CONG. & AD. NEWS
781, 800, 802 (reimbursement limits were a short-term step pending reimbursement
system reform).




n65.  CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, CHANGING THE STRUCTURE OF MEDICARE BENEFITS:
ISSUES AND OPTIONS, at xi-xii, 66 (1983); Controlling Health Care Costs: State,
Local, and Private Sector Initiatives: Hearing before the Senate Special Comm.
on Aging, 98th Cong., 1st Sess. 2 (1983) (statement of Sen. John Heinz,
Chairman) [hereinafter cited as Hearing].




n66.  Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-248, sec.
101(b)(3), § 1135(c), 96 Stat. 324, 335 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1320b-5
(1982)).




n67.  Lundy, supra note 53, at 6-7.  See Esposito, Medicare's Prospective
Payment Demonstration Program, in DIAGNOSIS-RELATED GROUPS, supra note 11, at
18, 19.




n68.  Statement of Policy, 47 Fed. Reg. 4612, 4613 (1982); R. SCHWEIKER, supra
note 4.




n69.  Social Security Amendments of 1983, Pub. L. No. 98-21, § 601-07, 97 Stat.
65, 149-72 (codified at 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395 (West 1983)). See supra notes 5-7.




n70.  Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-248, sec.
101(a)(1), § 1886(b)(3)(B), 96 Stat. 324, 333 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww
(b)(3)(B) (1982)).  HCFA actuaries estimated that the 1983 rate of increase in
the cost per Medicare discharge was 10.9%, while the market basket increase plus
one percent for the same period was estimated at 6.9%.  49 Fed. Reg. 252, 338
(1984).




n71.  Pub. L. No. 98-369, § 2310(a)(1), 98 Stat. 494, 1075 (codified at 42
U.S.C.A. § 1395ww(b)(3)(B) (West Supp. 1984)).




n72.  49 Fed. Reg. 27,422, 27,433 (1984) (rate increase held to 5.6% despite
estimated "market basket plus one" of 7.4%, because of the budget neutrality
requirement of § 1886(e)(1) of the Social Security Act, and "other
adjustments").




n73.  OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET, BUDGET OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT FY86, H.R.
DOC. NO. 17, 99TH CONG., 1ST SESS. 2-6 (1985).




n74.  Teitelman, Taking the Cure, FORBES, June 4, 1984, at 82.  Interestingly,
the free market rhetoric has not abated in the face of the extensive price
controls involved in a DRG system.  It would seem that DRGs are not generally
understood to be price controls.  In a recent survey of various lay and
professional groups, health care price controls were deemed unacceptable but
DRGs were widely approved.  Hearing, supra note 65, at 10, 15, 20 (statement of
Humphrey Taylor, President, Louis Harris & Associates, Inc.).




n75.  Hearings, supra note 31, at 161 (statement of Kevin P. Rowland,
Continental Association of Resolute Employers).




n76.  Already, "[b]etween one-quarter and one-third of the nation's voluntary
hospitals cannot generate sufficient revenue to pay expenses." J. KELLY & J.
O'BRIEN, supra note 26, at 1.




n77. " Competition" for self-financing patients may take many forms: simply
refusing to admit uninsured indigents, Medicare patients and Medicaid patients;
closing emergency rooms (the sole source of treatment for many indigents);
relocating to wealthier areas; establishing ambulatory care branches and merging
with hospitals in such areas; refusing to provide less lucrative services and
providing instead either services more lucrative in themselves or more likely to
attract wealthier patients (e.g., "wellness centers").  Hospitals have been
"dumping" poor patients not only by refusing to admit them, but by transferring
them or refusing them treatment even when such actions result in serious injury
or death.  Wall St. J., Mar. 8, 1985, at 33, col. 4.  Such incidents will not
disappear without structural reform; the number of hospitals offering free care
will continue to dwindle as the ranks of the uninsured indigents swell.  Id.




n78.  Capital Financing Under Medicare Program: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on
Health of the Senate Comm. on Finance, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. 104 (1984)
(statement of Robert Sillen, Administrator, Santa Clara County Medical Center).




n79.  Medicare reimbursement has already resulted in cost shifting of $ 6
billion in 1982.  Hearings, supra note 31, at 161 (statement of Kevin P.
Rowland, Continental Association of Resolute Employers); Hearings, supra note 1,
at 212 (statement of John F. Troy, Health Insurance Association of America)
(cost shifting equalled $ 5.8 billion in 1982); see also Ginsburg & Sloan,
Hospital Cost Shifting, 310 NEW ENG. J. MED. 893, 893 (1984) (cost shifting in
1981 estimated by the Health Insurance Association of America to be $ 4.8
billion); J. MEYER, PASSING THE HEALTH CARE BUCK; WHO PAYS THE HIDDEN COST?  7
(1983) (independent researchers found cost shifting in 1981 to be about $ 3.8
billion).  Further Medicare budget tightening will result in more cost shifting.
Hearings, supra note 1, at 212 (statement of John F. Troy, Health Insurance
Association of America).




n80.  See supra p. 267; see, e.g., Hearing, supra note 65, at 1 (statement of
Sen. John Heinz, Chairman); Hearings, supra note 1, at 213 (statement of John F.
Troy, Health Insurance Association of America).




n81.  See, e.g., Kempner, Employer Commitment Seen in Controlling Benefit Costs,
HOSPITALS, May 1, 1984, at 18.  See generally Hearing, supra note 65, at 97-103
(statement of Deborah Chollet, Employee Benefit Research Institute) (describing
employers' efforts to control health care costs).




n82.  See Hearings, supra note 31, at 157 (statement of Willis B.  Goldbeck,
President, Washington Business Group on Health) (cost shifting will cause
business to support an all-payor system).  Business interests pushed through the
extension of Massachusetts' prospective reimbursement system to all payors.
Iglehart, The New Era of Prospective Payment for Hospitals, 307 NEW ENG. J. MED.
1288, 1291 (1982).




n83.  Currently, DRG prices are required to rise by the same percentage as the
"market basket" of goods that hospitals buy.  Social Security Act §
1886(b)(3)(B), 42 U.S.C. § 1395(b)(3)(B) (1982).  However, the link to market
basket prices is not likely to survive budget cutting efforts for long;
apparently, the Reagan Administration has already effectively abandoned it.  See
supra note 72 and text accompanying note 73.




n84.  See CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, supra note 65, at 5 (aging of population
plus greater intensity of medical care for elderly will increase Medicare
program costs 2.2% annually).




n85.  See CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, AN ANALYSIS OF THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGETARY
PROPOSALS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1985, at 84 (1984); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
BASELINE BUDGET PROJECTIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1985-1989, at 20, 24 (1984).




n86.  See Marmor, Wittman & Heagy, The Politics of Medical Inflation, 1 J.
HEALTH POL. POL'Y & L. 69 (1976).




n87.  Recent examples include S. 3, 94th Cong., 2d Sess. (1976) (Kennedy-Corman
bill) and H.R.  5191, 96th Cong., 1st Sess. (1979) (Kennedy-Waxman bill).  See
J. FEDER, T.  HOLAHAN & T.  MARMOR, NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE: CONFLICTING GOALS
AND POLICY CHOICES 686-704 (1980); T. MARMOR, POLITICAL ANALYSIS AND AMERICAN
MEDICAL CARE 155-261 (1983).  For a discussion of the original universal health
insurance proposals in the New Deal/Fair Deal, see T.  MARMOR, THE POLITICS OF
MEDICARE 9-14 (1973) [hereinafter cited as POLITICS OF MEDICARE].




n88.  See Lowi, American Business, Public Policy, Case-Studies, and Political
Theory, 16 WORLD POL. 677 (1964).




n89.  See, e.g., Lindblom, The Science of "Muddling Through", 19 PUB. AD. REV.
79 (1959); A.  WILDAVSKY, THE POLITICS OF THE BUDGETARY PROCESS 108-26 (2d ed.
1974).




n90.  See POLITICS OF MEDICARE, supra note 87, at 5-28.




n91.  See Dunham, Morone & White, Restoring Medical Markets: Implications for
the Poor, 7 J.  HEALTH POL. POL'Y & L. 488 (1982).




n92.  For example, the Hill-Burton program, Hospital Survey and Construction
Act, Pub. L. No.  79-725, 60 Stat. 1040 (1946) (current version at 42 U.S.C. §§
291-291o (1982)), provided grants for the construction of new facilities; it
helped many hospitals and harmed virtually none.  See Rosenblatt, supra note 55,
at 265-76.  The industry fought Medicare through the early 1960's and then,
switching sides at the last moment, enjoyed the financial bonanza that followed;
this too was a broad benefit to the industry as a whole.  See POLITICS OF
MEDICARE, supra note 87, at 29-81; see also Rosenblatt, supra note 55, at
264-86.  Hospitals viewed the regulatory schemes of the Carter years as harmful
and easily defeated them despite increasing public concern about rising costs.
See Lundy, supra note 53, at 7-8.




n93.  The teaching hospital subsidy is a good illustration.  Teaching hospitals
receive an additional payment for the indirect costs of medical education.
Social Security Act § 1886(d)(5)(B), 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395ww(d)(5)(B) (West 1983);
42 C.F.R. § 405.477(d)(2) (1984).  This is an important subsidy to the many
urban hospitals which are also teaching hospitals.  However, the Reagan
Administration's new budget would reduce the teaching hospital subsidy by half,
illustrating the vulnerability of such special accommodations.  See Demkovich,
Administration Taking Aim at Subsidies for Hospitals' Medical Education Costs,
17 NAT. J. 309 (1985).




n94.  See, e.g., National Health Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974,
42 U.S.C. §§ 300k-t (1982); S. 2424, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. § 2101 (1984)
(Kennedy-Gephart bill).




n95.  See generally W. GLASER, HEALTH INSURANCE BARGAINING (1978) (discussing
European systems).




n96.  M. SKIDMORE, MEDICARE AND THE AMERICAN RHETORIC OF RECONCILIATION (1970).




n97.  See F. PERKINS, THE ROOSEVELT I KNEW 289 (1946).




n98.  On the concept of a political agenda, see R. COBB & C. ELDER,
PARTICIPATION IN AMERICAN POLITICS (1972); J. KINGDON, AGENDAS, ALTERNATIVES,
AND PUBLIC POLICIES (1984).




n99.  M. FIORINA, CONGRESS: KEYSTONE OF THE WASHINGTON ESTABLISHMENT 40 (1977).




n100.  Cf. E. FREIDSON, PROFESSION OF MEDICINE 373 (1970) (discussing
physicians' "technical" autonomy in defining "content" of their work).




n101.  See, e.g., B. MITNICK, THE POLITICAL ECONOMY OF REGULATION 38 (1980);
Stigler, supra note 20, at 3.




n102.  See G. MCCONNELL, PRIVATE POWER AND AMERICAN DEMOCRACY 107-18 (1966); M.
OLSEN, THE LOGIC OF COLLECTIVE ACTION 5-22 (2d ed. 1971).




n103.  See 42 C.F.R. § 53.111(h) (1984); see also Rosenblatt, supra note 55, at
276-78; Rose, Federal Regulation of Services to the Poor Under the Hill-Burton
Act: Realities and Pitfalls, 70 NW.  U.L. REV. 168, 169, 174-78 (1975).




n104.  See supra notes 54-56.




n105.  See supra note 60.




n106.  See supra notes 57-58.




n107.  See, e.g., Hearing, supra note 65, at 51 (statement of Frank A.  Sloan,
Executive Director, Health Policy Center, Vanderbilt University) (all-payor
system eventually would evolve to offer price protection for the benefit of
individual hospitals and insurers); see also Rose, supra note 103, at 168.




n108.  This model informs Frank Thompson's review of our book, POLITICS OF
INNOVATION, supra note 8.  Thompson, The Politics of DRGs (Review Essay), 9 J.
HEALTH POL.  POL'Y & L. 717 (1985).




n109.  J. WILSON, POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS 327-46 (1973).




n110.  See, e.g., D. TRUMAN, THE GOVERNMENTAL PROCESS: POLITICAL INTERESTS AND
PUBLIC OPINION (2d ed. 1971); R. DAHL, A PREFACE TO DEMOCRATIC THEORY (1956);
Greenstone, Group Theories, in 2 HANDBOOK OF POLITICAL SCIENCE 243 (F.
Greenstein & N. Polsby eds. 1975); THE FEDERALIST No. 10 (J. Madison).




n111.  See D. BELL, THE COMING OF POST-INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY: A VENTURE IN SOCIAL
FORECASTING 31-32 (1973).




n112.  Cf. R. ARNOLD, CONGRESS AND THE BUREAUCRACY: A THEORY OF INFLUENCE 26-30
(1979).




n113.  National health bills almost always have been associated with individual
members of Congress: The Hill-Burton Act is known by the names of the
Congressmen who sponsored it; Medicare was fundamentally shaped by Rep. Wilbur
Mills, see POLITICS OF MEDICARE, supra note 87, at 62-70.  By contrast, the
Medicare DRG system, like its New Jersey predecessor, is a bureaucratic
initiative, not identified with any particular legislators.




n114.  See Beer, Federalism, Nationalism and Democracy in America, 72 AM. POL.
SCI. REV. 9, 17-19 (1978) (discussing the concept of a public sector lobby); see
also Beer, The Adoption of General Revenue Sharing: A Case Study in Public
Sector Politics, 24 PUB. POL. 127 (1976).




n115.  See, e.g., R. DAHL & C. LINDBLOM, POLITICS, ECONOMICS & WELFARE, at xxii
(2d ed.  1976); L. BROWN, NEW POLICIES, NEW POLITICS: GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO
GOVERNMENT'S GROWTH 1-8 (1983).




n116.  See Heclo, Issue Networks and the Executive Establishment, in THE NEW
AMERICAN SYSTEM 87, 102 (A. King ed. 1978).




n117.  Cf. Etheredge, Government and Health Care Costs: The Influence of
Research on Policy 4 (Nov. 1984) (paper delivered at Pews Fellows Conference and
on file with the Yale Journal on Regulation).




N118.  See G. MCCONNELL, supra note 102 at 43-48; see also Morone, The Citizen
Role in Health Politics: Democratic Wishes and Sensible Reforms, in HEALTH
POLITICS AND POLICY 243, 244, 248 (T. Litman & L. Robins ed. 1984).




n119.  Cf. G. ALLISON, ESSENCE OF DECISION: EXPLAINING THE CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS
169-70 (1971) (discussing action channels for public decisions).




n120.  See F. HAYEK, THE ROAD TO SERFDOM (1944) (government intervention
inevitably leads to further government intervention); L. BROWN, supra note 115,
at 1-8.


                              471 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 26, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

The Silent Treatment From Beijing;
Mental Hospitals Allegedly Used to Quiet Dissidents, Falun Gong

BYLINE: Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1784 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


The police officer was on the run. Like others in the banned Falun Gong
spiritual movement, Fang Lihong had been fired, imprisoned and forced to attend
months of intense "deprogramming" classes. Unlike most, he was then committed to
a psychiatric hospital -- but he escaped.

"I was terrified," Fang said last year during an interview at a seedy tavern in
central China. "I'm not mentally ill, but I was trapped with the other patients
for 16 months."

At first, he said, doctors at the Kangning Psychiatric Hospital in the northern
city of Anshan forced him to take medication. Later, they let him take the pills
to his room and discard them, Fang said. The doctors told him they knew he was
sane but were under orders from his superiors in the police department to
"treat" him anyway, he said.

During the 45-minute interview, Fang spoke clearly and appeared rational.
Afterward, he slipped out a side door and went back into hiding. In February,
according to Falun Gong officials in the United States, police caught him in
southern Fujian province and he died in their custody, apparently from physical
abuse. A doctor at Kangning confirmed the mental hospital had treated Fang and
had been informed of his death, but he declined to discuss the case further.

Stories such as Fang's and others alleging psychiatric abuse of dissidents have
prompted an increasingly contentious debate over whether the Chinese government
is systematically confining people in mental hospitals for political reasons as
the Soviet Union did in the 1970s and '80s.

The issue is high on the agenda of this week's congress of the World Psychiatric
Association in the Japanese city of Yokohama, where delegates are expected to
vote today on a resolution demanding that China open its mental hospitals to an
independent investigation. If a probe found evidence of abuse, China could be
expelled from the world body.

That would be an embarrassing defeat for China's ruling Communist Party, which
has denied the allegations of psychiatric abuse and labored to defend its human
rights record in the run-up to the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. No major
member of the World Psychiatric Association has been forced out since the Soviet
Union, which withdrew in 1983 under threat of expulsion.

Whether Chinese psychiatrists will meet the same condemnation is uncertain, both
because there is little evidence that Chinese mental hospitals have been used to
silence prominent dissidents and because China has launched an aggressive
defense focusing on Falun Gong members they say are truly mentally ill.

The campaign to expose psychiatric abuse in China began last year with the
publication of a detailed report on the subject by Robin Munro, a British
academic who served as the chief China researcher for Human Rights Watch during
the 1990s.

The report relied primarily on articles discovered in Chinese psychiatric
textbooks and medical journals that describe a system in which forensic
psychiatrists diagnose "political criminals" with mental illnesses just as
routinely as they do other criminals. These criminals are spared prison terms or
execution and instead are sent to police-run institutes for the criminally
insane, known as Ankang hospitals.

Based on statistics reported in the Chinese documents, Munro estimated that at
least 3,000 people charged with some kind of political crime in the past two
decades were referred for psychiatric evaluation by police, and that most of
them were deemed mentally ill and confined in the Ankang system.

The finding was startling because China was widely believed to have abandoned
the systematic abuse of psychiatry after the end of Mao Zedong's destructive
Cultural Revolution in 1976, and many Western experts had praised Chinese
psychiatrists for making significant advances toward international standards.

In addition, Munro's estimate exceeds the number of political dissidents
confirmed to have been wrongly diagnosed and locked up in Soviet mental
hospitals during the 1970s and '80s.

"There were only ever about 200 to 300 named cases of Soviet dissidents and
others who were sent to mental asylums, though there are unconfirmed ballpark
estimates that the numbers may have run into the several thousands," Munro said.
"In China's case, by contrast, we have a wealth of official statistics showing
that the absolute minimum number of political psychiatric detentions since the
early 1980s is about 3,000."

But the evidence available against China is different in important ways from
what critics mustered against the Soviet Union.

In the Soviet case, there were two types of victims of psychiatric abuse, a
group of political dissidents who criticized the government, and a larger group
of people -- deemed "troublemakers" -- with grievances against their employers
or local officials. The West focused its attention on the political dissidents.

But the only evidence against Soviet psychiatrists at the time were numerous
anecdotal reports about individual cases, said Richard J. Bonnie, a law
professor at the University of Virginia who participated in two investigations
of psychiatric abuse in the Soviet Union.

"We had allegations, and we had names," Bonnie said. "There was no documentation
or any systematic statistical information of the kind that Robin has identified
in China."

On the other hand, Munro has been unable to put names behind the numbers. He
said the Ankang system is highly secretive, and the authorities generally use it
against lesser-known "political criminals."

Only two political dissidents inside the Ankang system are known to the outside
world. One is Wang Miaogen, who helped found the Shanghai Workers Autonomous
Federation in May 1989 and reportedly was committed to the Shanghai Ankang
Hospital in 1993.

The other is Wang Wanxing, a worker who unfurled a banner in Tiananmen Square in
1992 to commemorate the third anniversary of the military crackdown on
student-led protests there. His wife, Wang Junying, said police at the time
tricked her into signing papers indicating her husband was mentally ill by
saying he would be released in a few months.

But 10 years later, at the age of 52, he remains confined in the Beijing Ankang
Hospital on the outskirts of the city.

Wang said she has never been given an official diagnosis of her husband's
illness. In 1997, in response to a State Department report that mentioned the
case, the Chinese government said doctors had found Wang to be "suffering from
paranoid delusions."

A few months ago, Wang said, authorities offered to release her husband into her
custody if she agreed that he is mentally ill and took responsibility for his
actions. She said she and her husband refused, and in response the hospital
moved him to a ward holding violent inmates.

"How can they do this to a healthy person?" she said. "They couldn't charge him
with a crime, so they put him in a hospital. It's just an excuse to persecute
him."

Besides the two cases in the Ankang system, there have been many reports of
individuals -- including labor activists -- who have been committed to other
psychiatric hospitals for shorter periods, often without being charged with a
crime and usually by order of local officials who consider them troublemakers.

In the past year, state-run newspapers have reported on at least six cases of
people who were unjustly committed to mental hospitals, including a 60-year-old
teacher who was confined for 300 days after repeatedly complaining about
housing, and a 42-year-old peasant confined for more than 200 days after a land
dispute with local officials.

"They took an innocent, normal person who challenged authority and illegally
forced me into a mental hospital," said Zhong Huayuan, 63, a professor in
Guangzhou who was committed four times between 1972 and 1992 in disputes with
his bosses. "Some of the doctors don't realize what is happening, and they make
you take medicine or get electroshock therapy."

Chinese legal scholars and psychiatrists blame the problem on poor training of
psychiatrists and a weak legal system that does not protect patients' rights.
There is no clear standard for when a person who has not committed a crime can
be forcibly hospitalized, nor is it clear whether courts or doctors should make
that decision.

Arthur Kleinman, a leading expert on Chinese psychiatry at Harvard University,
argued that these cases do not amount to systematic political abuse. "We have
evidence of a small number of psychiatrists and a small number of hospitals that
seem to participate in political misuse of psychiatry," he said. "Even in these
cases, there is reason to believe the problem is poor training, poor standards
and poor practice."

Privately, Chinese psychiatrists asked why the authorities would bother putting
dissidents in mental hospitals when they can so easily send them to labor camps
or prisons. Munro said the government may find it more convenient to silence
some critics by hospitalizing them than by putting them on trial.

He emphasized that most Chinese psychiatrists are ethical, and noted that
official statistics show a steady decline in political psychiatric cases during
the 1980s and '90s. But he said that progress was threatened when the government
declared war in 1999 against Falun Gong, the Buddhist-like spiritual movement it
labeled an evil cult after the group appeared to endanger the Communist Party's
monopoly on power.

Falun Gong says 1,000 of its members have been forcibly committed. Chinese
psychiatrists have provided information about more than 200 Falun Gong cases to
the World Psychiatric Association, arguing that many of the people were
suffering from mental illnesses. Association President Juan Lopez-Ibor said the
material was under review.

The Chinese psychiatrists also argue that the forced hospitalization of mentally
ill Falun Gong members is justified because they pose a danger to themselves and
others. They noted that five purported Falun Gong practitioners set themselves
on fire in Tiananmen Square last year.

"We only treat those practitioners who have mental disorders, and only with the
consent of family members," said Zhou Dongfeng, vice chairwoman of the Chinese
Society of Psychiatry. Given that estimates of the number of people who practice
Falun Gong sometimes exceed 1 million, it is reasonable to expect several
hundred to suffer from mental illnesses, she said.

But Fang and three other Falun Gong members who asked not to be identified said
they were placed in mental hospitals only because they refused to renounce their
beliefs. "They couldn't change my mind in the brainwashing classes," Fang said,
"so they came up with a more vicious method."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              472 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                             March 3, 1997, Monday

POLITICAL NOTES / WOULD-BE REPRESENTATIVE IS JUST TRYING TO FIND A HOME; THAT'S
ONE WAY TO PUT A DENT IN THE CASH FLOW

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: Local/Regional; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 435 words


Self profit: During a teleconference last week, members of the New Hanover
County Hospital Study Committee asked Halifax Memorial Hospital President Rick
Gilstrap if his hospital's profit varied much from year to year.

With a straight face, Mr. Gilstrap matter-of-factly related an incident that
made a big dent in the hospital's bottom line one year.

"My chief financial officer embezzled $ 750,000," Mr. Gilstrap said. "He's
currently serving 63 years, courtesy of the state."

Halifax Memorial in Roanoke Rapids is a community general hospital, which
operates as a private corporation. New Hanover Regional Medical Center wants to
become a community general hospital. The study committee is looking at that
option and a variety of others, including remaining public and selling to a
for-profit company.

The County Commissioners will have the final say on the issue.

* * *

The ABCs of finding a lawyer: Todd Boggess, a 21-year-old drifter, confessed the
night of his August 1995 arrest that he and a co-defendant kidnapped Wilmington
teen-ager Danny Pence, stole his Ford Mustang and bludgeoned him to death in
northern Durham County.

Mr. Boggess isn't exactly the defendant lawyers would clamor to represent, but
Brian Aus and Fred Battaglia agreed to accept the job. Mr. Aus is No. 1 and Mr.
Battaglia No. 2 on their district's alphabetical list of lawyers who will
represent needy clients in capital murder cases.

Mr. Battaglia was vacationing at Sunset Beach when he got the call from Mr.
Boggess seeking his counsel. When Mr. Battaglia took the case, he had just
finished seven murder cases in 13 months. Mr. Boggess' trial has lasted seven
weeks, five of them for jury selection.

"I think I'll get off the list," Mr. Battaglia said Friday. "This is the longest
trial I've ever been involved in."

* * *

Political confusion? Last year, Jack White ran for county commissioner in the
Democratic primary and lost. He switched to the Libertarian Party and ran for
the position again in the general election. He lost again.

Thursday, Mr. White switched to the Republican Party and attended the party's
precinct meetings, which were held to elect precinct officers and delegates to
the county convention. He lost again.

Party chairman Thom Goolsby told the estimated 300 people who attended that they
couldn't participate unless they had registered at least 30 days before the
meeting.

* * *

Political tidbits: The New Hanover Democratic Party precinct meetings will be at
7 p.m. March 20 at precinct polling places, unless precinct chairmen make other
arrangements.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.


                              473 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Cyprus Mail

                             March 11, 2016 Friday

Hospital autonomy bill 'in union hands'

LENGTH: 613 words


UNDERSECRETARY to the President Constantinos Petrides said on Friday that health
professionals have been given the hospital autonomy bill which the government
would like to table to parliament before it is dissolved ahead of the May
elections.

The much awaited bill comes after a six-month delay as the government had
stopped last summer its tabling to parliament at the eleventh hour, to give more
time for dialogue with stakeholders until September.

Hospital autonomy is the first step towards the implementation of the National
Health Scheme (NHS). It aims to make state hospitals administratively and
financially independent and able to compete with private hospitals.

Speaking to state broadcaster CyBC, Petrides said the bill satisfies those
demands of the health professionals that "we deem as fair demands".

"The intention of the government is to proceed promptly and table the legal
amendments that safeguard what we have agreed to, before the current legislative
body," Petrides said.

He added that as regards pay increases, as per the demands of nurses' union
PASYNO that would like to move up their current pay scale after having their
qualification made equal to a university degree, "if such a thing took place
now, it would sink any attempt for hospital autonomy".

He also called claims of health professionals on the increasing workload in
state hospitals, as "unfounded", because in 2015, he said, 50,000 fewer patient
visits were recorded in state hospitals than 2012.

President Nicos Anastasiades too, said in a televised interview on CybC on
Thursday that according to the hospital autonomy study that all political
parties adhere to, there is a surplus of 400 nurses, and a surplus in doctors,
too.

"Should I proceed with firing people?" he asked. He said that instead, a road
map should be drawn toward the gradual implementation of hospital autonomy as
provided by relevant studies, "not with layoffs, but with the way it should be
made so that (state hospitals) become truly independent and competitive units".

He added that he is overseeing the process towards hospital autonomy personally,
and he reiterated that obstacles to introduce the NHS do not lie with interest
groups opposing it, but rather the cost of funding it.

He hoped that the relevant administration software will be ready by June 2017,
and that he will arrange a meeting with the heads of all the political parties
"to address effectively this great issue".

Unsure if the project will be implemented during his term, Anastasiades said
that what is important is to follow the roadmap and materialise "those which
will be announced", and solve the problems the health sector faces.

Union representatives told the Cyprus Mail they were asked to submit their
suggestions as regards the bill next week, but they expressed reservations as to
whether such an important issue is to be discussed by MPs and voted by the
plenum in such a short notice, days before the parliament is dissolved.

The bill comes a few weeks after the government agreed with civil servants'
union PASYDY to satisfy a number of demands put forth by nurses, in exchange for
the union to engage in a constructive dialogue on hospital autonomy.

The deal was badly received by nurses union PASYNO though, whose members
constitute around half the state hospitals' nursing staff. They said they were
not invited to participate in the dialogue and their demands were not
considered. PASYNO already staged a two-day 12-hour strike last month, while it
announced it would go on an indefinite strike as of March 15.

The post Hospital autonomy bill 'in union hands' appeared first on Cyprus Mail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/11/145772867478.jpg



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 70


               Copyright 2016 Cyprus Mail - Cyprus Mail Co. Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              474 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Cancer hospital not be targeted for political motives; Elahi

SECTION: Vol. 17 No. 215

LENGTH: 151  words


Deputy Prime Minister Ch Parvez Elahi has said that N-League should not make
Imran Khan's welfare institutions like Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital target of
its traditional political victimization.In a statement issued here on Thursday,
Ch Parvez Elahi said that targeting a hospital for political vengeance was
highly deplorable and the greatest moral degradation on the part of N-League. He
said politicking against most modern hospital rendering great services to the
cancer patients was highly condemnable and worst example of resorting to such
low level tactics and grave violation of moral and social values.Ch Parvez Elahi
said that Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital was a non-political welfare institution
rendering healthcare services to the people where millions of cancer patients
were provided most modern treatment and highest standard of facilities and
deserving patients are even treated free.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              475 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Doctors demand arrest of 'activists' in 24 hours

SECTION: JAIPUR

LENGTH: 283 words


JAIPUR: A day after BJP Yuva Morcha activists barged into SMS hospital
superintendent LC Sharma's office and held him captive, doctors on Wednesday
asked political parties to refrain from using hospital premises to gain mileage.

"There is a limit. Today activists of one party barged into the hospital,
tomorrow some other party workers would do the same. This is not a method of
protest," said Dr R C Yadav, president, All Rajasthan Medical College Teachers
Association.

Following the unruly scene at the hospital on Tuesday, the doctors held a gate
meeting to demand arrest of all the 'activists' involved in the incident with 24
hours.

They threatened to hold another gate meeting on Thursday morning if the police
failed to make arrests.

Dr Yadav said, "We are not giving the medical superintendent a clean chit on the
charges of negligence. We are not opposing any kind of inquiry into the case the
matter. However, we are opposing the manner in which people of a certain party
entered the office and mistreated Sharma."

Doctors have decided to write to the political party to identify the accused and
expel them from the party. At a time when the hospital is facing shortage of
staff and resources, such unruly incidents will only add to the stress level of
the doctors.

Jaipur Association of Resident Doctors (JARD) president Dr Ashok Jhajharia
condemned the incident, and said, "In such an environment, how can a doctor can
treat his patient properly? This is a dangerous trend."

SMS hospital nursing superintendent Surajmal Paliwal said, "There are many ways
of protest. They could have staged a dharna, raised slogans or used any other
peaceful way of protest."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              476 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Yukon News (Yukon)

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Mortgaging our future

BYLINE: Yukon News

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 540  words


It may make political sense to hide public expenditures, but it doesn't make
financial sense.

Dennis Fentie's Yukon Party government has offloaded at least $67 million in
capital spending to the Yukon Hospital Corporation, which will now build a new
residence and two hospitals, one in Watson Lake and another in Dawson City.

This allows Fentie to create the illusion the territory's economy is stronger
than it is.

He can, for a short time, bolster construction in the territory, fueling the
labour market. And he does so without sapping the territory's capital budget -
essentially, he's keeping his cash reserves for other projects.

If you're looking at short-term political benefits, that's clever. If you're
looking at the long-term interests of the territory, it's irresponsible.

Eventually, bills must be paid. In this case, he's offloading the bill on future
generations, which will have less because of Fentie's off-book accounting.

The Yukon Hospital Corp. hasn't got cash reserves. It can only build the
hospitals and residences by borrowing money from commercial lenders. So it's
going to have to pay interest on the money.

And that interest will be slightly higher than the rates the government itself
can secure.

So, for the next 15 years, the hospital corporation will pay interest on money
it borrowed. Those interest payments are going to add up to millions.

It's a senseless waste - the hospital corporation is funded by the Yukon
government.

Essentially, fast-tracking the hospital contracts will prevent the territory
from building other multimillion-dollar capital projects in the future.

The Yukon government is, needlessly, going to be paying interest to a bank
through the hospital corporation. Worse, had it borrowed the money directly for
the projects, it probably would have paid less interest than the hospital
corporation.

We say probably because it's not clear what interest the hospital corporation is
paying. It won't say - the details are not finalized yet. And the hospital
corporation is suggesting it might not be willing to reveal the details once
they are nailed down, citing possible confidentiality clauses.

If it won't volunteer the information, the public is out of luck. The hospital
corporation is exempt from access-to-information legislation.

Which brings up another political benefit to having the hospital corporation
handle the projects.

The Watson Lake and Dawson hospital schemes have been controversial. The need
for a hospital in Watson Lake, a town of fewer than 1,000 residents, has been
questionable, at best. And its initial construction, which resulted in a mouldy,
half-finished shell, has been a political liability for the Fentie government.

Now, the whole thing has been offloaded to a Crown corporation immune from
access requests by the public and the media.

It is now well shielded from public view.

And thanks to the government's use of off-book accounting, the territory will
now be paying for these projects, through the hospital corporation, for 15
years.

As noted, that will suck millions from the territory's coffers, which could have
been used for future capital projects.

Rather than mortgage the future, we'd all be better off if territorial
government pays as it goes. (Richard Mostyn)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business; Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 Yukon News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              477 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Why did Capital Health roll over for Tories?; Troubling that a public body would
so quickly change a long-standing, sensible policy

BYLINE: Graham Thomson, The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: OPINION; Graham Thomson; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 832  words


Well, his campaign slogan does promise "change that works for Alberta."

But this is probably not the kind of change anyone had in mind.

Conservative Leader Ed Stelmach has prompted -- some might say coerced --
Capital Health to change its ban against partisan political events inside
Edmonton hospitals.

Up until Tuesday, Capital Health had a sensible policy that forbade political
parties from using hospital property to stage rallies or even hold news
conferences.

The buildings, said Capital Health officials, were publicly funded and should be
free from partisan politics. Over the years, both the Liberals and NDP had asked
to hold events on Capital Health property and both had been flatly refused.

Then a few days ago the Conservative party called and asked to use the
University of Alberta Hospital for a campaign event. And, just like that,
Capital Health changed its policy and said yes.

So, for 30 minutes on Tuesday morning the lobby of the Walter C. MacKenzie
Centre at the University Hospital became party central for the Conservatives.

Campaign workers set up a podium with microphone and speakers in front of a
large blue Conservative campaign backdrop.

For journalists, watching a hospital lobby being transformed into a political
setting was just the start of the surprises. The event, that had been billed
simply as a campaign stop for Stelmach to make an announcement, turned into a
mini-rally when out of the Capital Health board room walked Stelmach trailing
his entire coterie of Edmonton-area candidates. It was like watching the
emptying of a circus clown car. They just kept coming -- more than two dozen of
them.

They gathered around Stelmach for a photo-op and cheered as he announced the
Conservatives' plan to train more health-care professionals.

It was all a bit unseemly having the Conservatives applauding themselves while
members of the public wheeled grandpa through the lobby. It certainly explains
why Capital Health didn't want partisan political events sullying its hallways.

But it doesn't explain why Capital Health changed its policy the moment the
Conservatives called.

Tory campaign officials said they asked to use the hospital because it was a
logical location for an announcement on health care. Later, they tried to
diffuse any controversy by saying the Alberta Liberals had done the very same
thing last week by using the University of Alberta to launch their campaign
platform.

However, there is a big difference. The Liberals paid to rent a lecture room at
the university. They hadn't used the lobby of the hospital, a place specifically
denied to political parties.

Why did Capital Health roll over for the Conservatives?

"I was just notified late last night that they were coming here to put on this
press announcement so I don't know any more than that," said Capital Health's
chairman, Neil Wilkinson, after Tuesday's event.

"It's a public place paid for by the public purse so if people want to do things
here, provided we have the appropriate notice and so on, it's open to the
public."

So, suddenly an area out of bounds to partisan events has apparently become
Speaker's Corner.

"It's open to, if we have the proper notice and the time, it's open to
everybody," said Wilkinson, who added, "provided it's appropriate to our mission
and our purpose."

Perplexed reporters pressed Wilkinson to explain how a Tory event was promoting
Capital Health's mission.

"You'd have to ask them that. I didn't see this as a political rally. I saw a
press release that said that 'We're helping health care.' So that's good news
for me."

Wilkinson, it should be noted, is a long-time Conservative supporter who was
appointed to his position at Capital Health by the Conservative government.

But it's not clear who actually approved the policy change to allow the
Conservatives to hold their mini-rally on Tuesday.

"Our practice up until this request had always been that we did not allow them,"
said Capital Health spokesman Steve Buick. "Just in general all public bodies
try to avoid partisan political activity on public property during a campaign."

Who made the decision to change the policy and why?

Buick was vague, saying only that unnamed staff in CEO Sheila Weatherill's
office had made the decision.

"There wasn't an elaborate rationale," said Buick. "We simply had a request and
said 'yes.' And it seemed to us the main two considerations were that the
request was to use a public area and that we would feel free to offer the same
terms to the opposition as well."

So, now the hospital lobby is open to all political parties -- even though
Capital Health has yet to tell the opposition about the change in policy. But
that's not the main point here. The troubling issue is that a public body
changed a long-standing and sensible policy at the drop of a hat. Or should I
say the drop of a writ.

The result is that Capital Health has made itself look like an extension of the
Conservative party. That is not a change that works for Alberta.

gthomson@thejournal.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              478 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      May 22, 1998, Friday, METRO EDITION

Ottawa hospital chief uniting Quebecers David Levine's right to the job defended
by all

BYLINE: By Sandro Contenta Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


   MONTREAL - What David Levine failed to do as a Parti Quebecois candidate 19
years ago, he seems to have achieved today: build bridges between anglophones
and francophones in Quebec.

The controversy surrounding his appointment as head of an amalgamated Ottawa
hospital has seen Quebecers of all political stripes defend his right to a job
no matter what his beliefs on Quebec sovereignty.

It's the kind of consensus that rarely occurs in a province where public debate
often splits along sovereignist and federalist lines.

Those divisions were sharper than ever when Levine, 50, decided to run as the PQ
candidate in the 1979 by-election in D'Arcy-McGee, a federalist bastion in
Montreal.

Quebec's anglophone community had yet to absorb the shock of the first PQ
election victory in 1976 and the province was only a year away from the 1980
referendum.

Ed Bantey, who ran Levine's campaign, recalls that PQ canvassers "were
physically kicked out of apartment buildings" when they tried to drop off
flyers.

Even Levine's father, a sock salesman who emigrated from eastern Europe, had a
hard time accepting his son's sovereignist stripes and politics was off limits
around the dinner table.

After a civil engineering degree from McGill University and a masters degree in
health administration from the University of Montreal, Levine ran a community
clinic before joining the staff of PQ MNA Bernard Landry, who happened to be his
neighbour at the time and is now Quebec's deputy premier.

When the D'Arcy-McGee by-election was called, then premier Rene Levesque wanted
to ease fears the Jewish community had about the rise of nationalism in the
province, said Henry Milner, a former PQ candidate and party executive.

No one in the PQ - starting with Levine - thought they had any chance of winning
the riding.

"It certainly wasn't a political career he was embarking on, that's for sure,"
said Milner, a Queen's University political scientist who worked on Levine's
campaign.

PQ MNA David Payne, who also worked on Levine's campaign, said Levine tried to
assure anglophones "that separatists did not grow horns."

Bantey, now a newspaper columnist, says he can't recall Levine ever trying to
sell sovereignty in a campaign speech.

"I don't know what kind of sovereignist he is. I would never swear by his
convictions," he said.

As expected, Levine was trounced by Liberal candidate Herbert Marx 22,293 votes
to 813.

He left the PQ in 1981, complaining that it had lost touch with the Socialist
roots that attracted him.

He became chief executive of the Verdun General Hospital - where he implemented
an innovative home-care program - before landing the same job with Notre-Dame
hospital in 1992. An anglophone Jew landing the top job at Quebec's largest
hospital - a francophone and Catholic institution - was no small feat.

"He was appointed without a whimper and with open arms. Contrast that with
what's happening in Ottawa," said Payne, referring to the current strident
resistance to Levine because of his PQ past.

In 1995, Levine accepted then-premier Jacques Parizeau's invitation to sit on
the Montreal commission on Quebec's future.

Its report, released seven months before that year's referendum, warned the
government that Quebecers would not opt for sovereignty unless the PQ first
explained what an independent Quebec would look like.

During his stay at Notre-Dame, Payne had to implement massive cuts that saw the
800 beds at his hospital reduced by 300. He cut the average hospital stay by
adopting the "ambulatory" approach to medicine - setting a timetable for a
patient's exit the moment he or she enters the hospital by co-ordinating lab
services, diagnosis, surgery and home care.

The upheaval from the forced budget cuts was great, but Levine went out of his
way to make it as painless as possible for patients and workers, said Claude
Arseneault, head of Notre-Dame's User Committee, which the government has set up
in all hospitals to help patients.

"He's an excellent administrator," Arseneault said.

When three downtown hospitals, including Notre-Dame, were amalgamated, Levine
was touted as the obvious candidate for the top job.

But health minister Jean Rochon made it clear that he preferred a different
candidate and, on the backing of friend Bernard Landry, a disappointed Levine
settled for the job of Quebec's delegate-general in New York.

Levine grabbed the offer from the Ottawa hospital without first informing the
PQ, a source says. That miffed Premier Lucien Bouchard's government and that
explains why it took a week before Landry and Bouchard publicly denounced the
resistance to his Ottawa appointment, the source said.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              479 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                   TELEGRAPH

                            October 28, 1986 Tuesday

DR QUITS IN 'CRONY' ROW

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: BUTTON D

LENGTH: 331 words


Hospital job "tied to Nats' DR QUITS IN "CRONY' ROW By DOUG BUTTON The deputy
chairman of one of the State's largest hospital boards has resigned suddenly,
claiming cronyism by the State Government over a major appointment.

Dr Bob McLaughlin has quit in a row over the appointment of the chairman of the
Gold Coast Hospitals Board.

Dr McLaughlin has a private practice.

He said today the Government had installed Mr Earl Lever, a former oil company
executive, in the top position, because of his political affiliations with the
National Party.

Immediate past chairman, Mr Roy Shepherd, retired at the weekend when he turned
70.

Mr Shepherd was the chairman of the Southport branch of the National Party.

Mr Lever had admitted he had no experience in hospital administration, Dr
McLaughlin said.

Dr McLaughlin said: ""This sort of thing (appointment through political
affiliation) has been going on for years.

""This is why hospitals across the State are in such a crisis.

""Often in the State's major hospitals there are people at the top with very
little experience.

""There have been two attempts in the past to oust me from the board because I
was a Liberal.

""These attempts were strongly resisted when the Liberals were in Government.

""Board members and chairmen should be appointed to their positions on merit and
because of their ability not because of their political mateship."

Dr McLaughlin, a Liberal Party zone area chairman, had been on the board 11
years and the deputy chairman 18 months.

Hospital Board appointments are made by the Governor-in-Council.

The Health Minister, Mr Austin, who is campaigning in the electorate of Nicklin,
was unavailable for comment today.

The National Party Member for Southport, Mr Doug Jennings, said today
allegations by Dr McLaughlin were ""ludicrous".

""Mr Lever has had considerable experience in many areas, is well respected in
the community and a former president of Legacy and other public organisations."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: TEL

                   Copyright 1986 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              480 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                              May 21, 2012 Monday

Don't play politics: NC to PDP

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, May 21 -- The National Conference today attacked the politicians who
are playing with the sentiments of the people who lost their babies in GB Pant
hospital.

The spokesman, Tanvir Sadiq, while reacting to various press conferences from
leaders of political parties said that it's shameful that they are playing
politics and trying to mantle the role of messiah when they are clearly making
the situation worse.

The NC spokesman said that the party is pained and shares the sorrow with the
families who lost their babies adding that some leaders are projecting and
attacking the government instead of trying to support Chief Minister Omar
Abdullah who is trying to overhaul the whole hospital to ensure that all the
facilities are available to the patients.

Tanvir said that keeping in view the gravity of the situation the Chief Minister
had himself stepped in and ensured that steps are taken to strengthen existing
infrastructure and equipment in the hospitals by providing required equipment,
upgrading diagnostic facilities and ensuring timely supply of medicines. "The CM
personally visited the hospital, took immediate steps and ensured that an
upright and experienced doctor heads it," said Tanvir, adding that "he met the
civil society members and agreed to all their demands to ensure all facilities
are available to the patients," he said.

Tanvir added "why are some leaders trying to take political mileage out of it."
Terming the Statement of PDP president as shameful and in utter bad taste the
spokesman said that she takes sadistic pleasure out of the miseries of the
people otherwise why instead of acting as a healthy opposition and demanding a
meeting with the authorities to know the steps taken she in a public meeting
talks about such a sensitive issue "The PDP president took sadistic pleasure out
of the incident in GB Pant hospital," adding, "how can she stoop so low and take
political advantage out of this as well!"

Meanwhile, the spokesman said that on the instruction of the Chief Minister Omar
Abdullah the Health department has already initiated the process of formulation
of Detailed Project report (DPR) for the construction of new 200-bedded
pediatric hospital at Srinagar adding that the seriousness can been seen by the
immediate identification of the land for the hospital at Dewan Bagh. Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Times.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              481 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

Pakistan: Hospitals receive no election-related emergency case

LENGTH: 330  words

DATELINE: Rawalpindi


Rawalpindi, Feb. 26 -- No big emergency was reported from anywhere in the
National Assembly constituency, NA-55, or in town till 5 p.m. on the Election
Day particularly in a situation when out of 250 polling stations 49 were
declared sensitive.According to our correspondent, none of the three allied
hospitals received any extraordinary burden at their emergency departments
because of 'feared' clashes between supporters of rival candidates. However
small incidents of exchange of harsh words among supporters of different
candidates were reported at a few polling stations but it did not cause any
significant emergency.Accident & emergency departments of the allied hospitals -
Benazir Bhutto Hospital, Holy Family Hospital and District Headquarters Hospital
- remained on red alert throughout the Election Day to cope with any
extraordinary emergency.Medical Superintendent of HFH Dr Fiaz Ahmed Khan told to
media that the HFH emergency department functioned as per routine on Wednesday.

"Till now, the hospital received no big emergency in relation to the
electioneering in NA-55," he said at around 5:00 p.m.He said that the normalcy
at the emergency department hints that voters and supporters of various
candidates contesting for the National Assembly seat in NA-55 behaved in a
civilized manner."We did not receive any emergency case at the BBH that could be
termed a result of some clash between supporters of rival political groups
instead we received cases in emergency department as per routine," said Director
Emergency at BBH Dr Muhammad Mujeeb Khan while talking to media.Deputy Medical
Superintendent Emergency at DHQ Hospital Dr Irfan Khilji said that no emergency
case in result of any clash between supporters of various political parties was
reported at DHQ Hospital till closure of polling. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              482 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Zimbabwe Standard (Harare)

                                 March 09, 2014

Political Interference At Chinhoyi Hospital

BYLINE: Nunurai Jena

LENGTH: 407 words


Political interference in the recruitment of staff and trainee nurses is
affecting service provision and the general operation of Chinhoyi General
Hospital, Mashonaland West's provincial health centre.

Chinhoyi hospital superintendent, Collet Mawire said lack of discipline was now
a major concern at the health centre, especially from people referred to the
institution by top government officials and politicians.

Mawire divulged this during a tour of the hospital by Minister of Health and
Child Care David Parirenyatwa, his deputy Paul Chimedza, permanent secretary
Gerald Gwinji and Makonde MP, Kindness Paradza.

Mawire said some of the members of staff had become "untouchables", thereby
disrupting the smooth functioning of the hospital, including service delivery.

"Management has found it difficult to control some members of staff because of
their supposed affiliation [to politics and individuals] and untouchable
nature," said Mawire.

He gave an example of a nurse with military background whom he said no longer
wore the complete uniform, putting on military badges instead of his normal
epaulettes.

Mawire also talked about political interference in recruitment after Paradza
blasted the hospital officials over recruitment of student nurses. He was not
happy that most of the student nurses came from outside the province.

Paradza took delegates by surprise when during the tour he asked a class of
about 25 student nurses how many were from Makonde district.

The students said they were mostly from Masvingo and Harare and all hell broke
loose with the outspoken journalist-turned-politician accusing the health
authorities of neglecting his constituency.

"For Chinhoyi provincial hospital the catchment area is Mashonaland West and
more so Makonde because this hospital is in Makonde so I don't see any reason
why we shouldn't have more students from Makonde," said Paradza.

"We have so many potential students with good 'O' and 'A' levels from Makonde
but they are not getting places here and these places are filled by people from
as far as Harare and Masvingo. I'm saying this is wrong."

Parirenyatwa promised to institute an enquiry to look into "various allegations
of mismanagement, political interference and stagnation of development at the
hospital."

The hospital is facing a critical shortage of beds. The Standard news crew saw
some patients sleeping on the floor.

Mawire said the hospital had only about 250 beds instead of 430.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              483 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 17, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Not Much Life in Kelly's Plan To Revive D.C. General Hospital

Cindy Loose

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D3; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly's $ 600,000 plan to resuscitate D.C. General Hospital
was looking moribund before the September primary. Kelly's defeat in the primary
seems to have stripped the plan of any remaining life.

Neither Democratic nominee Marion Barry nor Republican choice Carol Schwartz
considers Kelly's "fiscal viability plan" viable, and both say another solution
must be found. Neither candidate offered specific ideas.

Asked what he thinks should be done about D.C. General and his opinion of the
mayor's plan, Barry responded: "Oh God. We're going to have to find a better way
to do it. Maybe marrying D.C. General to another health facility. And we've got
to get more paying patients. We've got to."

Schwartz said she wants to "consider a lot of options."

In the fiscal year that ended Oct. 1, D.C. General had an operating deficit of
about $ 26 million, despite a city subsidy of about $ 59 million.

The mayor this year spent more than $ 600,000 for a consultanting firm, Kurron
Shares of America Inc., to come up with ideas for turning the hospital around.
Kurron said the hospital desperately needed restructuring so it could operate
free of political interference and bureaucratic strictures, and the firm
recommended that the hospital become a quasi-public corporation.

The unions, fearing the loss of civil service protections, protested the plan,
and Kelly found that she had very little backing from the D.C. Council. The
latest list of "expense reduction initiatives," released last week by the
hospital's director, Dennis Gowie, makes no mention of restructuring.

The $ 600,000 paid to Kurron has become part of the hospital's deficit.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              484 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

Call to remove political parties banners, flags from NICH

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 508

LENGTH: 413  words


Medical wings of political parties have converted the Sindh's largest children
healthcare National Institute of Child Health (NICH) Karachi into political
pitch by installing huge banners, party flags and posters of their leaders in
the premises of institution while administration seemed to be hapless in front
of powerful activists.

A reliable source in the hospital on condition of anonymity said medical wings
of different political parties had totally changed the atmosphere of NICH and
had turned it into political arena rather than healthcare.

He said activists of medical wings of political parties installed huge banners,
posters and party flags of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Pakistan Muslim League
(Nawaz), Pakistan Muslim League (Functional) and Islami Jamiat-e-Talaba (IJT) in
different wards and entrances or exit of hospital.

He said wall chalking were also visible in wards and institution had turned into
party secretariat. Sources said no any place of NICH was spared from these
banners and posters. He said this malpractices had been seen in all other
hospitals of Karachi city, but situation in NICH was worst as compared to other
hospitals of city. He said institution atmosphere had badly been disturbed due
to cold attitude of relevant authorities.

He informed that 700 to 800 patient visits different Outpatient Department of
NICH for treatment on daily basis and 18,000 children get treatment every month
in institution. He said whenever administration takes a step to remove the
politically installed banners the activists start hue and cry against
administration.

He demanded of Health Minister Sindh and Executive Director NICH to take action
against staff members damaging the institution reputation in public eyes.
Central leader of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad said
health institutors and dispensaries should be freed from politics as they
provide treatment to all segments of society without any discrimination.

He said PMA had clear stance on issue that the health institutions should be
spared from all kind of political interferences. He said health institutions
should be utilized for health facilities.

He appealed to the medical wings of political parties to voluntarily remove all
the party flags, posters, banners and wall chalking in better interest of public
health and revival of institution atmosphere. Executive Director NICH Prof Jamal
Raza was not available on phone despite repeated attempts and text messages.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              485 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

Call to remove political parties banners, flags from NICH

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 508

LENGTH: 413  words


Medical wings of political parties have converted the Sindh's largest children
healthcare National Institute of Child Health (NICH) Karachi into political
pitch by installing huge banners, party flags and posters of their leaders in
the premises of institution while administration seemed to be hapless in front
of powerful activists.

A reliable source in the hospital on condition of anonymity said medical wings
of different political parties had totally changed the atmosphere of NICH and
had turned it into political arena rather than healthcare.

He said activists of medical wings of political parties installed huge banners,
posters and party flags of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Pakistan Muslim League
(Nawaz), Pakistan Muslim League (Functional) and Islami Jamiat-e-Talaba (IJT) in
different wards and entrances or exit of hospital.

He said wall chalking were also visible in wards and institution had turned into
party secretariat. Sources said no any place of NICH was spared from these
banners and posters. He said this malpractices had been seen in all other
hospitals of Karachi city, but situation in NICH was worst as compared to other
hospitals of city. He said institution atmosphere had badly been disturbed due
to cold attitude of relevant authorities.

He informed that 700 to 800 patient visits different Outpatient Department of
NICH for treatment on daily basis and 18,000 children get treatment every month
in institution. He said whenever administration takes a step to remove the
politically installed banners the activists start hue and cry against
administration.

He demanded of Health Minister Sindh and Executive Director NICH to take action
against staff members damaging the institution reputation in public eyes.
Central leader of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad said
health institutors and dispensaries should be freed from politics as they
provide treatment to all segments of society without any discrimination.

He said PMA had clear stance on issue that the health institutions should be
spared from all kind of political interferences. He said health institutions
should be utilized for health facilities.

He appealed to the medical wings of political parties to voluntarily remove all
the party flags, posters, banners and wall chalking in better interest of public
health and revival of institution atmosphere. Executive Director NICH Prof Jamal
Raza was not available on phone despite repeated attempts and text messages.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              486 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 9, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Political Ambitions Could Split Council;
Fixing D.C. Schools Tops Most Agendas

BYLINE: Eric M. Weiss, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 963 words


In their drive to become the District's next mayor, both D.C. Council Chairman
Linda W. Cropp and council member Adrian M. Fenty have made fixing the city's
dilapidated school buildings a top priority. But the consensus ends there.

Fenty's bill proposes to spend $1 billion on schools by tapping into D.C.
Lottery revenue. Cropp (D) scoffed at the plan last week during her birthday
party fundraiser, calling it "poof! imaginary money."

Education funding will be the first test of how District leaders handle
controversial legislation in a rapidly shifting political landscape. With Mayor
Anthony A. Williams (D) not seeking a third term and with seven council members
running for mayor or contemplating a run for council chairman, city politics has
taken on a new edge.

Council member Kathy Patterson (D-Ward 3), chairman of the education committee,
said she will try to broker a compromise on education. "If we're not able to act
on this issue, it's not good news for District residents, period," Patterson
said. She said she hopes her role will bolster her planned run for council
chairman.

Other council members running or considering a bid for the city's two top
political jobs are: mayoral candidate Vincent B. Orange Sr. (D-Ward 5); Jack
Evans (D-Ward 2), a candidate for council chairman; and two potential council
chairman candidates, Jim Graham (D-Ward 1) and Vincent C. Gray (D-Ward 7).

Although the council and the mayor share some priorities for the coming year,
both expect  that the campaigns for next year's elections will present new
challenges if candidates promoting their agendas become less willing to
compromise on difficult issues.

In addition to school renovations, the council is expected to consider proposals
for a smoking ban for District bars and restaurants, a new hospital, tougher
rent control and a construction contract to build a baseball stadium for the
Washington Nationals.

Williams's priority list for the remaining months of his term includes building
the hospital with Howard University, creating a new central library on the old
convention center site and stimulating job creation for D.C. residents.

Many of Williams's plans have mixed support on the council. "It's going to be
very, very difficult," Williams said of reaching his goals.

Last year, the council rejected Williams's proposal to gain control over the
city's schools. Williams did not include school renovations, an expensive
proposition, on his latest list of priorities. Chief Financial Officer Natwar M.
Gandhi has said modernizing 130 city schools  would cost $2.8 billion.

Council responses to Fenty's school-improvements proposal, introduced this year,
illustrate how some members seek to satisfy voters, as well as  members' need to
score political points. They began by pointing out that the D.C. Lottery revenue
that Fenty (D-Ward 4) would use to fund his plan already is committed in the
city budget.

Nevertheless, Fenty's plan was approved by the finance committee, even though
Evans, the chairman, has called Fenty's funding plan irresponsible. Evans voted
"present" in committee.

Last week, he introduced legislation that would guarantee $200 million a year in
city tax revenue for school modernization over the next decade  --  twice
Fenty's number.

Cropp responded to Fenty's plan by using her power as chairman to help add
millions of dollars for school construction in last year's budget. Although it
doesn't come close to $1 billion, she promised that there will be additional
funds, all spent responsibly.

One priority that the mayor shares with some on the council is the effort to
build a $400 million, 250-bed, "state-of-the-art" hospital on the grounds of the
former D.C. General in Southeast Washington. If approved, a new hospital could
improve the mayor's political standing with some residents but could create a
political problem for some council members.

There is perhaps no single issue that hurt Williams more politically than his
decision in 2001 to close D.C. General. Some voters who live east of the
Anacostia River and who depended on the hospital now distrust him.

The proposed new hospital has the strong support of political and civic leaders
in Southeast and in Ward 7, where the effort to draft Williams for mayor in 1998
started. But the plan is opposed by the D.C. Hospital Association, which fears
the hospital would add duplicative services and result in higher hospital costs.

Even some council members who opposed the closure of D.C. General and believe
there is a need for a health care facility in the area question whether the plan
for a full-scale hospital is the solution.

"We have to approach this methodically and make sure there is no overlap," said
Orange, who voted against D.C. General's closure and favors building a facility.
"There's still a lot of work to be done."

Orange said council members are in a tough spot politically.

"If you were opposed to closing D.C. General, how can you turn around and be
against this project?" he asked.

Gregory M. McCarthy, the mayor's deputy chief of staff, said Williams's
commitment to the hospital is just as strong now that he is not running for
reelection. McCarthy said the debate will be "an epic battle full of people with
very hard and deeply felt notions."

Some see opportunity in all the political tumult. Already, members say, interest
groups are trying to harness the political winds to drive their agendas, and
observers say council members will pay more attention to voters this year than
traditionally powerful business and industry groups.

"I think people are going to see a heightened responsiveness from their elected
officials," said Fenty, who was one of the three smoking ban supporters last
year. "I think it's a good thing."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              487 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     April 15, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Bomb kills six in hospital in Pakistan

BYLINE: NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, India


A bomb exploded in Pakistan's only cancer hospital on Sunday, killing at least
six people, injuring more than 30 and adding a grim twist to a personal and
political feud that many Pakistanis believe could have a profound impact on the
country's future.

The bomb detonated in the city of Lahore at the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Centre, opened 16 months ago and dedicated to the memory of the mother of
Pakistan's former cricket captain, Imran Khan. Khan, 43, has said in recent days
that he is on the verge of starting a political movement to topple Prime
Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was a fellow student of Khan's at Oxford University
20 years ago.

The blast occurred shortly after noon on Sunday, a normal working day in
Pakistan, when about 150 patients and relatives were gathered at the sprawling
hospital complex. Officials said that the dead included two children who were
patients and that 10 of the injured were in critical condition.

The incident came amid intensifying political violence in Pakistan. Khan, who
gained widespread popularity among Pakistan's 130 million people when his team
won cricket's world championship for the first time in 1992, has been critical
of the country's feuding political class, which he has called "a culture of
corruption and injustice."

Many of his criticisms have been aimed particularly at Bhutto, whom Khan has
accused of leading a government obsessed with political vendettas and
self-enrichment. Bhutto has responded by targeting Khan with income-tax
investigations, a ban on fund-raising events for the cancer hospital in schools
and other government-run institutions, and a blackout on reports about the
hospital on the state-run broadcasting network.

Bhutto, 42, called the blast "a deplorable attack" and hinted that it might have
been the work of loyalists of Pakistan's main Opposition leader, Nawaz Sharif.
Sharif, who has tried and failed to recruit Khan as an ally, denied the
allegation.

Khan declined to say who he thought might have set the bomb. But he said the
blast would not deter him from his political plans.

Khan has stirred controversy for describing the country's political elite as
"brown Sahibs" -- meaning that their attitudes and lifestyles, in a Muslim
country, mimicked those of the British rulers of colonial India.

Last summer, Khan stunned many Pakistanis by marrying Jemima Goldsmith, the
daughter of James Goldsmith, an Anglo-French business tycoon.



LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              488 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 5, 2005, Monday

CHIRAC 'NOW EAGER TO LEAVE' AFTER HOSPITAL STAY

SECTION: Post Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 319 words


President Jacques Chirac was said to be in a 'good condition' in hospital
yesterday where he is being treated for a blood vessel problem.

Chirac (pictured) was taken to a Paris military hospital late on Friday after
suffering blood vessel trouble that was hindering his eyesight, but he was
already eager to leave, officials said.

'His general state and his medical report are very satisfactory,' said
Val-de-Grace military hospital in a statement, adding he would stay under
medical supervision for several days.

Chirac's wife, Bernadette, was seen leaving the hospital yesterday afternoon,
but only waved to reporters.

Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin said Chirac was in 'good form' when the two
men met at the hospital on Saturday.

Officials said Chirac had cancelled or delayed several appointments this week.

With Chirac sidelined, the popular leader of his conservative political party,
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, told party members that no one would stop his
quest for the presidency in 2007 and sought to draw a line between their visions
for France.

The two men have long had a tense relationship. Many political observers cite
Sarkozy's decision to back then-Prime Minister Edouard Balladur in the 1995
presidential race, which Chirac won, as one cause.

Although Sarkozy has never hidden his presidential ambitions, choosing a
candidate for an election is up to the party. Questions remain about whether
Chirac will seek a third term.

In a boisterous speech to cheering members of the Union for a Popular Movement
in the Atlantic coastal resort of La Baule, Sarkozy promised a 'healthy, loyal
and quality' competition in the 2007 race.

Sarkozy is often depicted in polls and French media as the front-runner for the
2007 contest. But polls show the popularity of Villepin - viewed as Chirac's top
protege - has been rising since he took office in June.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              489 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday

Pakistan: ANP corner meeting blast death toll mounts to 10, over 40 injured

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, April 28 -- The death toll of a powerful blast in Awami National Party
(ANP) corner meeting has mounted to 10 while over 40 injured have been confirmed
now.

Earlier last night, a powerful blast wreck havoc in a corner meeting of the
Awami National Party (ANP) at Mominabad area of Orangi Town in Karachi, leaving
several killed and scores of others injured.

A powerful blast occurred exactly at that time when a prominent leader of the
ANP, Bashir Jan, reached to attend the corner meeting in Mominabad. Bashir Jan
is also contesting in upcoming polls as his party's candidate from this area.

The sources present at blast site confirmed that over four dozen people
sustained injuries and at least six persons expired on the spot.

The powerful and lethal blast was extremely loud and it had been heard in
faraway places of the metropolis including Tower, Defense, Gulshan-e-Iqbal,
North Nazimabad, and SITE areas.

The rescue teams and heavy contingents of police and rangers rushed towards the
blast site immediately after the bang, started moving the bodies, and injured to
hospitals without any delay. Many children were also included in the blast
victims.

The injured and dead bodies were quickly moved to Abbassi Shaheed Hospital,
Civil Hospital, and Jinnah Hospital for medical assistance where few blast
victims are still in very critical condition.

Three bodies and 19 injured had been moved to Abbassi Shaheed Hospital, three
more dead bodies and at least eight injured to Civil Hospital and 17 injured to
Jinnah Hospital. Few slightly injured persons preferred to take medical
assistance from the local clinics.

Later on, two more blast victims succumbed to injuries in hospital. Now another
blast victim has succumbed to injuries in hospital and death toll has mounted to
9.

The death toll can mount further as at least eight injured are still in very
serious condition, informed hospital sources.

Many cars, parked near the blast site, sustained heavy damages and many
neighboring buildings also damaged badly in the lethal blast.

President Zardari, Caretaker PM Khoso and Caretaker Interior Minister condemned
the blast and issued orders for best possible medical assistance to the blast
victims.

Mutahida Qaumi Movement Chief Altaf Hussain and other political leaders
condemned the blast sternly.

ANP Chief Asfandyar Wali has also condemned the blast and vowed to take part in
the polls, saying the terrorists are trying to harass liberal political parties
and leaders with these attacks to keep away from the upcoming elections.

We will not be intimidated and would definitely take part in upcoming general
elections despite all odds, added the ANP chief Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              490 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 9, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Members' Political Ambitions Could Present Challenges for D.C. Council

BYLINE: Eric M. Weiss, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C06

LENGTH: 962 words


In their drive to become the District's next mayor, both D.C. Council Chairman
Linda W. Cropp and council member Adrian M. Fenty have made fixing the city's
dilapidated school buildings a top priority. But the consensus ends there.

Fenty's bill proposes to spend $1 billion on schools by tapping into D.C.
Lottery revenue. Cropp (D) scoffed at the plan last week during her birthday
party fundraiser, calling it "poof! imaginary money."

Education funding will be the first test of how District leaders handle
controversial legislation in a rapidly shifting political landscape. With Mayor
Anthony A. Williams (D) not seeking a third term and with seven council members
running for mayor or contemplating a run for council chairman, city politics has
taken on a new edge.

Council member Kathy Patterson (D-Ward 3), chairman of the education committee,
said she will try to broker a compromise on education. "If we're not able to act
on this issue, it's not good news for District residents, period," Patterson
said. She said she hopes her role will bolster her planned run for council
chairman.

Other council members running or considering a bid for the city's two top
political jobs are: mayoral candidate Vincent B. Orange Sr. (D-Ward 5); Jack
Evans (D-Ward 2), a candidate for council chairman; and two potential council
chairman candidates, Jim Graham (D-Ward 1) and Vincent C. Gray (D-Ward 7).

Although the council and the mayor share some priorities for the coming year,
both expect that the campaigns for next year's elections will present new
challenges if candidates promoting their agendas become less willing to
compromise on difficult issues.

In addition to school renovations, the council is expected to consider proposals
for a smoking ban for District bars and restaurants, a new hospital, tougher
rent control and a construction contract to build a baseball stadium for the
Washington Nationals.

Williams's priority list for the remaining months of his term includes building
the hospital with Howard University, creating a new central library on the old
convention center site and stimulating job creation for D.C. residents.

Many of Williams's plans have mixed support on the council. "It's going to be
very, very difficult," Williams said of reaching his goals.

Last year, the council rejected Williams's proposal to gain control over the
city's schools. Williams did not include school renovations, an expensive
proposition, on his latest list of priorities. Chief Financial Officer Natwar M.
Gandhi has said modernizing 130 city schools would cost $2.8 billion.

Council responses to Fenty's school-improvements proposal, introduced this year,
illustrate how some members seek to satisfy voters, as well as members' need to
score political points. They began by pointing out that the D.C. Lottery revenue
that Fenty (D-Ward 4) would use to fund his plan already is committed in the
city budget.

Nevertheless, Fenty's plan was approved by the finance committee, even though
Evans, the chairman, has called Fenty's funding plan irresponsible. Evans voted
"present" in committee.

Last week, he introduced legislation that would guarantee $200 million a year in
city tax revenue for school modernization over the next decade  --  twice
Fenty's number.

Cropp responded to Fenty's plan by using her power as chairman to help add
millions of dollars for school construction in last year's budget. Although it
doesn't come close to $1 billion, she promised that there will be additional
funds, all spent responsibly.

One priority that the mayor shares with some on the council is the effort to
build a $400 million, 250-bed, "state-of-the-art" hospital on the grounds of the
former D.C. General in Southeast Washington. If approved, a new hospital could
improve the mayor's political standing with some residents but could create a
political problem for some council members.

There is perhaps no single issue that hurt Williams more politically than his
decision in 2001 to close D.C. General. Some voters who live east of the
Anacostia River and who depended on the hospital now distrust him.

The proposed new hospital has the strong support of political and civic leaders
in Southeast and in Ward 7, where the effort to draft Williams for mayor in 1998
started. But the plan is opposed by the D.C. Hospital Association, which fears
the hospital would add duplicative services and result in higher hospital costs.

Even some council members who opposed the closure of D.C. General and believe
there is a need for a health care facility in the area question whether the plan
for a full-scale hospital is the solution.

"We have to approach this methodically and make sure there is no overlap," said
Orange, who voted against D.C. General's closure and favors building a facility.
"There's still a lot of work to be done."

Orange said council members are in a tough spot politically.

"If you were opposed to closing D.C. General, how can you turn around and be
against this project?" he asked.

Gregory M. McCarthy, the mayor's deputy chief of staff, said Williams's
commitment to the hospital is just as strong now that he is not running for
reelection. McCarthy said the debate will be "an epic battle full of people with
very hard and deeply felt notions."

Some see opportunity in all the political tumult. Already, members say, interest
groups are trying to harness the political winds to drive their agendas, and
observers say council members will pay more attention to voters this year than
traditionally powerful business and industry groups.

"I think people are going to see a heightened responsiveness from their elected
officials," said Fenty, who was one of the three smoking ban supporters last
year. "I think it's a good thing."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              491 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

WLMH project in limbo

BYLINE: Pieter van Hiel, staff, pvanhiel@niagarathisweek.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744  words


In the wake of the public rally that attracted an estimated 12,000 people to
demand a new West Lincoln Memorial Hospital (WLMH), Ontario's health minister
has promised that the project will "move forward." However, the project will be
held in limbo for at least five years before coming up for consideration. The
province withdrew $136.8 million in funding for the long-awaited new facility in
last month's provincial budget.

"We have a five year capital plan. The WLMH was on the plan. We had to review
that plan in light of our fiscal circumstances and that hospital did come off
the five year plan. We're not planning to do the redevelopment in the next five
years. However, we are planning to continue revitalizing our hospitals and we'll
be doing a rolling new capital plan. This is a hospital that we know needs to be
done. It will be considered as part of future capital plans," Deb Matthews,
Minister of Health, said in an interview on May 8.

Dr. Ken Southward, co-chair of the rally and the ongoing "Make a Difference"
campaign, said the campaign would continue putting pressure on the government.

"Our focus is still (Ontario premier) Dalton McGuinty here. What the health
minister says is interesting, but our focus is still Dalton McGuinty. He is our
target," said Southward.

Tim Hudak, local MPP for Niagara West-Glanbrook and Ontario's Tory leader, also
seems to have the McGuinty government in his target sights. Hudak, who attended
the rally wearing a "Make a Difference" T-shirt provided by organizers, stressed
his involvement in the 1997 rally to keep the hospital open. At that time, he
was parliamentary secretary to the minister of health in a Tory government that
closed 28 hospitals and laid off 6,000 nurses. WLMH was on the chopping block,
but was one of a handful of rural hospitals that remained open after
negotiations with the government. Last week, Hudak hammered the health minister
at Queen's Park over the WLMH project.

"All 10,000 strong in Grimsby last night heard how worthy a project the West
Lincoln Memorial Hospital is. I fear that the decision by Dalton McGuinty had
everything to do with politics, and nothing to do with ensuring high quality
patient care," said Hudak in a debate at Queen's Park. However, Hudak has also
said the province needs to balance the books before considering the WLMH
project.

Locally, campaign organizers have worked hard to prevent politicizing the
hospital project, to the point of asking local parliamentarians not to
participate in the formal portions of the rally.

"It wasn't a political rally. We really appreciate their support, but it was a
rally to give everybody a better understanding of the hospital, and that's not
political," said Southward. He said the campaign would continue to seek support
from residents of all political affiliations and make the case for the hospital
project. Southward said the rally was a great example of this cooperation.

"The rally was superb from all aspects, both from the burst of the support from
the community, the message from our health care providers, chambers and mayors
that everybody was on side. I think it was a good chance for maternity to meet
geriatrics to meet emergency. We were just thrilled with the rally and with the
response," he said.

With the rally complete, the Make a Difference campaign is now moving on to a
petition and letter writing phase. The official petition was launched at the May
2 rally and had already collected more than 5,000 signatures as of press time.
Southward noted that a previously launched online petition, while helpful in
raising awareness, could not be formally recognized or received by Queen's Park.

"We launched the petition at the rally and have well over 5,000 signatures on
that. You will see a lot of push over the next weeks to sign the petition. It is
important we do that, because that is the support we can give to our local
politicians to take the message to Queen's Park at the end of the month," said
Southward. "The second thing we're doing is the letters to Dalton campaign.
These are the letters that we collected, well over 5,000 too, at the rally.
We're going to make sure each one of those is mailed to Queen's Park. In our
opinion, it's a way of getting right through security and getting it to the
person we want to hear it."

Copies of the petition are available at the chamber of commerce offices in
Grimsby, Lincoln and West Lincoln, as well as at many public buildings and
businesses.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              492 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 22, 2006 Sunday

NHS cuts twice as likely in Tory and Lib Dem areas

BYLINE: KARYN MILLER and TOM HARPER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 431 words


HOSPITALS IN Conservative and Liberal Democrat constituencies are more than
twice as likely to suffer from NHS cuts as hospitals in Labour seats, an
investigation by The Sunday Telegraph has found.

Thirty-four per cent of Tory and 37 per cent of Lib Dem seats in England and
Wales have been affected by cuts that have been either announced or proposed.
Only 14 per cent of Labour areas are affected. The cuts range from the closure
of single wards to the axing of entire hospitals.

The findings follow news that Patricia Hewitt, the Health Secretary,
commissioned "heat maps'' to show the potential political effects of proposed
hospital closures, and figures showing that seven times as many cottage
hospitals have closed or are under threat in Opposition-held areas than in
Labour ones.

In response, the Government has denied that it is "playing politics'' with the
health service.

However, this newspaper's findings, calculated by analysing hospital cuts that
have been publicly announced or proposed, will re-ignite the debate about the
handling of the Government's much-trumpeted NHS reform plans.

Last night, Andrew Lansley, the shadow health secretary, said: "It's bad enough
that there are nationwide cuts to frontline NHS services, but it adds insult to
injury that Labour are manipulating cuts to save their own political skin.
Patients and healthcare professionals must come first, but Labour can no longer
be trusted to do this.

Steve Webb, the Lib Dems' health spokesman, said: "The way the dice seem to fall
is very suspicious. It would be outrageous if decisions about cuts and closures
were manipulated for one party's political advantage, but this, I believe, is
what's happening.''

Michael Summers, of the Patients' Association, said: "If political
considerations are driving the changes, it is completely unacceptable.''

A Department of Health spokesman denied that opposition constituencies were
being unfairly targeted, and insisted that individual NHS organisations were
best-placed to explain reasons for "reconfigurations'' in their areas.

He said: "This survey doesn't take into account the fact that the NHS is working
to provide more services closer to home. The change of services within a
hospital can be due to that service being moved into a community setting, making
it more convenient for patients.''

A spokesman for Ms Hewitt said: "We're shifting services to areas where the
health needs are greatest, which are commonly in urban areas,'' he said. "These
happen to be mostly Labour seats. Decisions are driven by clinical needs. There
is no political meddling.''

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              493 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 1, 2003, Thursday

WARD ZONE;
 BROWN IN SWIPE AT BLAIR PLAN

BYLINE: PAUL GILFEATHER WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 402 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNHEALTHY DEBATE: Blair and Brown sit together yesterday at Prime
Minister's Question Time. Left: Alan Milburn


GORDON Brown squared up for a battle with Tony Blair yesterday by putting the
boot into the PM's flagship foundation hospitals scheme.

The Chancellor broke ranks to fuel fears that the new super-trusts would create
a two-tier health care system.

And he refused to deny that non-foundation hospitals would lose out on money.

Under Mr Blair's scheme, trusts selected as foundation hospitals will be able to
opt-out of Whitehall control to set their own financial priorities.

But Mr Brown's outburst at the Commons Treasury Select Committee is sure to
bolster a rebellion among Labour MPs due to culminate next week during a Commons
debate.

Some 130 backbenchers have signed a Commons motion opposing foundation
hospitals.

And, Mr Blair faced hostile questioning at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour
Party yesterday - which means he will be even more infuriated by Mr Brown's
comments.

The Chancellor told the Treasury committee that foundation hospitals had to stay
within the NHS budget he has set out to 2008.

When pressed on whether this would mean hospitals which stayed under Whitehall
control would suffer because they would not have the same fundraising powers, he
said: "I am not going to get into this."

Mr Brown also appeared to contradict Health Secretary Alan Milburn, who expects
that in time all hospitals will become foundation trusts.

He said: "I don't know how many hospitals will become foundation hospitals. I
don't know at what rate. They have got to meet certain tests.

"We have got to work within a very generous settlement that takes us to 2008."

He added: "The hospitals cannot borrow off the balance sheet. Additional
investment that hospitals make, whether foundation hospitals or not, has got to
be kept within the NHS budget. There is no question of that."

Labour committee member George Mudie said: "This is going to be the hottest
issue in Parliament since Iraq."

And its Labour chairman, John McFall, told the Chancellor he must convey the
anger felt by MPs to Mr Blair.

He said: "Your comments, however valiant they may be, have not persuaded our
committee. You better have good answers for George Mudie et al." But, Mr Milburn
attacked those fighting the changes. He said: "Now is not the time to back off
reform.

"I freely admit that this is a very controversial policy but I believe it is
absolutely the right policy."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.


                              494 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     January 27, 2001, Saturday, Edition 1

POSSIBLE STROKE PUTS PINOCHET IN CHILE HOSPITAL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 169 words


SANTIAGO (AP) - Chilean Gen. Augusto Pinochet was rushed to
 hospital yesterday, hours after a retired army general blamed him
 for dozens of political killings in 1973.

 Pinochet, 85, suffered "strong headaches, briefly lost consciousness and has a
minor loss of strength in the left side of his body," Santiago Military Hospital
said in a statement yesterday, describing symptoms that could suggest a stroke.
It said blood to his brain stopped briefly.

Neurology chief Dr. Sergio Ferrer said Chile's former ruler and dictator was
"recovering well."

On television Thursday night, retired Gen. Joaquin Lagos said Pinochet was
responsible for political killings by the Caravan of Death - a military party
that toured several cities after his bloody 1973 coup, dragging 75 political
prisoners from jail and executing them brutally.

Lagos is the first high-level military official to formally accuse Pinochet of
direct involvement in the deaths of leftists and political opponents.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              495 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 23, 1998 Saturday

The man who loved hospitals

BYLINE: Lysiane Gagnon

SECTION: FOCUS COLUMN; Inside Quebec; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: in Montreal


THE good times are rollin' again for the sovereigntists. They've had a field day
with the Levine affair, and there are interesting developments on other fronts
as well.

Next week, Alliance Quebec, the English rights' lobby group, is electing a new
board, and William Johnson, a hardliner fondly known as "the pit bull" because
he sticks to his ideas with such blind fervour, is running for president.

Even if he loses to the incumbent, Constance Middleton-Hope, a conciliatory lady
widely seen as a moderate, Mr. Johnson's strong fight for the leadership and
high-profile public performances will make him a major player in Alliance Quebec
and help to polarize the political climate in the province. The Parti Québécois
hardliners have their fingers crossed, hoping he'll win. On both sides of the
political barrier, uncompromising crusaders are close cousins and they always
feed on each other.

But the real bonanza was the Levine affair. According to pollster Claude
Gauthier, this could give two or three more points to the PQ's support, just
when it needs it so badly. (Since Jean Charest came on the scene, the Quebec
Liberal Party has surged ahead of the PQ by several points.)

For years, the separatists have been waiting for a replay of the famous
trampling of the Quebec flag in Brockville, Ont. This incident greatly helped
stoke the flames of visceral nationalism. Silly behaviour is easy to exploit. It
makes for great visuals, it stirs basic emotions and it requires no explanation:
It's them versus us, and "here is the proof that they hate us and that we have
no place in Canada."

From a separatist point of view, the Levine affair was much juicier than the
Brockville incident. It had the potential of a full-fledged political crisis.

Here was a highly competent Quebecker who was about to be thrown out of a job
that had his name on it, and why? Because he was a PQ candidate in a by-election
20 years ago and had recently been appointed by a sovereigntist government to a
politically sensitive civil-service job in New York. Considering that Mr. Levine
was a career hospital administrator, his possible rejection smacked of
discrimination.

The Brockville villains were a tiny group of elderly people. In the Levine
affair, the intolerance came from sophisticated circles: respectable daily
newspapers, educated protesters, well-off donors, town mayors. All this in the
heart of the national capital! The hysteria culminated in a horrible televised
meeting, with a lynch-mob-like crowd denouncing Mr. Levine as a traitor, making
him a scapegoat for the country's woes (a particularly repugnant coincidence was
that the scapegoat is Jewish).

Trampling a flag is rude, but trampling a basic right -- the right to one's
political beliefs -- is despicable. Still, this could have been dismissed as a
red-neck type of reaction. After all, having a white-collar job does not
preclude being a redneck. But then the crisis took a distinctly political turn.
Not only the health minister, but Ontario's Premier himself, publicly agreed
with the protesters. This was the real scandal. Mr. Harris's infamous comment (a
non-Canadian would have been preferable to a Quebec separatist) will certainly
affect the unity dossier.

Even from a non-political point of view, the uproar against Mr. Levine was
incredibly stupid, for Montreal's loss is Ottawa's gain.

As we are currently seeing in Montreal, where several large hospitals are going
through painful mergers, it's extremely difficult to find qualified CEOs to
preside over hospital mergers. Mr. Levine was highly praised as head of Notre
Dame, Quebec's largest hospital. He was poised to become the CEO for the new
mega-hospital formed by the merger of Notre-Dame and two other hospitals, but
severe infighting between the establishments of the three institutions made the
nomination impossible. The solution was to look for an outsider. As a
consolation prize, Mr. Levine was sent to New York as Quebec's agent-general.

Quebec is filled with people who have voted for the PQ for one reason or another
at one time or another. Excluding them means excluding half the population.
Quebec is also filled with people who have been, at widely varying degrees, in
favour of sovereignty. Some still harbour those views, some have changed their
minds and some just don't care any more. It would be undignified for Mr. Levine
to talk about his present political beliefs. All we know is that he hasn't been
involved in active politics for two decades, and that all that was required in
his New York job was that he did not campaign against the sovereigntist stand of
the government. I interviewed him three years ago on health issues and he didn't
seem interested in politics. He was passionate about his job, though.
Lysiane Gagnon is a political columnist for La Presse.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              496 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                              N - Canberra Edition

Photo ruled out of order - QUEENSLAND DECIDES

BYLINE: Sean Parnell, Queensland political reporter

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 315 words


A QUEENSLAND Health staffer has sparked a mini-furore after taking photos of LNP
leader Lawrence Springborg while he made an announcement at the Royal Children's
Hospital yesterday.

Rosemary Desmond, the media manager at the hospital and a former journalist,
snapped Mr Springborg during a visit to the hospital where he announced an LNP
government would reverse Labor's decision to downgrade paediatric services.

The LNP has previously claimed Queensland Health is hiding the true state of the
public hospital system, and seeking to manage information flow and influence
public opinion.

But Mr Springborg was welcomed onto the site yesterday, even if he was left
puzzled and somewhat alarmed by Ms Desmond's attention.

It is understood Ms Desmond, a former AAP reporter in Brisbane, had intended to
use the photos in the hospital newsletter.

Queensland Health director-general Mick Reid, the former chief of staff to
federal Health Minister Nicola Roxon, last night said it was inappropriate for
Ms Desmond to be taking photos of a political leader during an election
campaign.

``The officer was immediately counselled by their supervisor and is now aware
that during caretaker mode there are to be no photographs of any political party
members,'' Mr Reid said.

``I have sent an email today to all public affairs staff reminding them to act
professionally and appropriately at all times.''

Doug Brown, acting chief operations manager at the hospital, had earlier sought
to downplay Ms Desmond's behaviour.

``It is standard practice for our public affairs staff at the Royal Children's
Hospital to take photographs of any style of media event that is taking place at
their facility,'' he said.

While the Bligh Government wants to consolidate paediatric services at a new
Queensland Children's Hospital at the Mater site, across the river, the LNP
wants to upgrade both the Royal Children's and the Mater.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Photograph crosses line - QUEENSLAND DECIDES

BYLINE: Sean Parnell, Queensland political reporter

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 315 words


A QUEENSLAND Health staffer has sparked a mini-furore after taking photos of LNP
leader Lawrence Springborg while he made an announcement at the Royal Children's
Hospital yesterday.

Rosemary Desmond, a media officer at the hospital and former journalist, snapped
Mr Springborg during a visit to the hospital where he announced an LNP
government would reverse Labor's decision to downgrade paediatric services.

The LNP has previously claimed Queensland Health is hiding the true state of the
public hospital system, and seeking to manage information flow and influence
public opinion.

But Mr Springborg was welcomed onto the site yesterday, even if he was left
puzzled and somewhat alarmed by Ms Desmond's attention.

It is understood Ms Desmond, a former AAP reporter in Brisbane, had intended to
use the photos in the hospital newsletter.

Queensland Health director-general Mick Reid, the former chief of staff to
federal Health Minister Nicola Roxon, last night said it was inappropriate for
Ms Desmond to be taking photos of a political leader during an election
campaign.

``The officer was immediately counselled by their supervisor and is now aware
that during caretaker mode there are to be no photographs of any political party
members,'' Mr Reid said.

``I have sent an email today to all public affairs staff reminding them to act
professionally and appropriately at all times.''

Doug Brown, acting chief operations manager at the hospital, had earlier sought
to downplay Ms Desmond's behaviour.

``It is standard practice for our public affairs staff at the Royal Children's
Hospital to take photographs of any style of media event that is taking place at
their facility,'' he said.

While the Bligh Government wants to consolidate paediatric services at a new
Queensland Children's Hospital at the Mater site, across the river, the LNP
wants to upgrade both the Royal Children's and the Mater.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              498 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                     March 27, 2003 Thursday Final Edition

Outaouais hospital joins political fray: Board to press provincial parties for
solutions to health care problems at private one-hour meetings

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Paul Gessell

SECTION: City; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 750 words

The Outaouais Regional Hospital has thrust itself forcefully into the Quebec
election campaign by pressuring the province's three main political parties to
state explicitly how they would tackle the institution's many problems,
including the chronic nursing shortage.

With public opinion polls showing health as the No. 1 issue for Outaouais voters
in the campaign for the April 14 election, the hospital is organizing separate
meetings with area candidates for the Liberals on April 4, Action democratique
du Quebec on April 8 and Parti Quebecois on April 11.

Each one-hour, private meeting with 12 members of the hospital board will be
followed by a news conference at which details of the meeting will be revealed,
Ginette Leblanc, a hospital spokeswoman, said in an interview yesterday.

The provincially owned hospital will not endorse specific candidates or parties.
But after the election, the hospital will be reminding the winning party about
its promises.

"The thing we want to know is what exactly they intend to do and after that we
can say, 'But you promised that during the campaign'," Ms. Leblanc said.

The election candidates will be asked how they would solve problems in four
specific areas: the shortage of nurses and doctors; the proximity to higher-wage
hospitals in Ontario; hospital financing; and infrastructure issues, including
buildings and equipment.

Outaouais health officials said yesterday they believe this to be the first time
a provincially owned hospital in the region has taken such a bold step to hold
politicians' feet to the fire.

A recent public opinion poll showed health is the No. 1 election issue for
Outaouais voters.

The poll, conducted for Radio-Canada and Le Droit March 13-19 among 600
residents of the Outaouais, showed 57 per cent of respondents felt the
recruitment of new doctors and nurses was the most pressing election issue.

Other issues cited as a top priority: Construction of social housing units (13
per cent), reduced income tax (13 per cent), completion of Highway 50 to
Montreal (12 per cent) and construction of a new bridge to Ottawa (six per
cent).

The Liberal party has tried to make health the top issue province-wide, in the
belief that is where the government is most vulnerable. The Liberals hold all
five Outaouais ridings and are expected to retain most, if not all.

The Outaouais Regional Hospital, with campuses in the Hull sector and in old
Gatineau, is the area's largest medical facility. It has suffered for years from
a nursing shortage and currently claims it needs 120 more.

The region also lacks doctors. The Outaouais Regional Health and Social Services
Board, a provincial government agency, released a report in February saying 127
more physicians are needed, to increase the number of general practitioners to
325 from 275 and specialists to 246 from 169.

The lack of medical personnel has caused long waiting lists for surgery and
periodic shutdowns of emergency services, forcing sick people to deal with
walk-in clinics or Ottawa hospitals, which often have their own crowding and
staff shortage problems.

Ontario hospitals, however, have one advantage: Higher wages for nurses. A
general duty registered nurse earns a maximum of $49,255 in Quebec and $63,784
in Ontario. The gap increases for more specialized nurses, with the annual
difference up to $20,000.

The problem is further complicated by the fact that many Quebec nurses are
bilingual and can easily take those higher paying jobs in Ontario, while most
Ontario nurses cannot speak French and cannot deal with francophone patients in
Quebec hospitals.

Martin St. Louis, a spokesman for the regional health board, says the real
problem is in retaining nurses. He said the reasons most nurses give for
quitting their jobs centre on working conditions and excessive overtime rather
than job opportunities in Ontario.

The hospital is trying to tackle the retention problem through a combination of
increased hiring and workload reorganization.

As for the doctor shortage, Mr. St. Louis said: "There is no special recruitment
campaign on because there is always a special recruitment campaign on."

The PQ government has tried various schemes, with mixed success, to increase the
supply of nurses and doctors to the hardest hit areas outside Montreal, but has
refused to tackle the pay disparity issue, saying if higher wages were given to
Outaouais nurses, nurses in other parts of the province would demand parity.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              499 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           February 18, 2017 Saturday

Mamata expresses concern over vandalism at hospitals

BYLINE: Tamal Sengupta

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 242 words


KOLKATA: West Bengal Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday expressed concern
about vandalism at private hospitals and nursing homes in the city and said she
will talk to the hospital authorities to know the problems being faced by
them.An angry mob recently ransacked a reputed private hospital in the city
following death of a patient. Another group of unruly people had also ransacked
the government-run SSKM Hospital in the city.

"Some people often ransack and vandalise hospitals which is not at all
desirable. There is no need to ransack a hospital which provides medical
treatment. I have noticed two such incidents in the city recently. I shall talk
to the authorities of private hospitals," Mamata said on Friday. She also
criticised the previous state government and attacked her opposition political
parties. "Those who were in power earlier, did not do any work and now are
giving lectures. We have inherited a huge debt burden from the previous
government. Despite financial constraints, we are constantly working for
people," she said, hinting clearly at the CPM-led Left Front government which
was ousted from power by her in 2011.Mamata also said that earlier everyone used
to say 'Bengal is finished'. "But now people praise the huge progress which
Bengal has witnessed in the past six years." "CPM is a lost case. Congress
should focus on Delhi first. BJP should set its house in order," she said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
