                               6 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Order to remove graffiti from hospitals greeted

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 794

LENGTH: 417  words


The doctors' and paramedical organizations on Wednesday welcomed the provincial
health department's notification for removal of wallchalking, banners and
posters of the medical wings of political parties from the premises of all
government hospitals and dispensaries.

According to the notification, all heads, incharges and medical superintendents
of government hospitals have been directed to remove wallchalking, slogans,
banners and posters of political parties from their respective premises.

The directive issued under the section 28(4) of Sindh Healthcare Commission Act
and under the section 3(1) (2) of Prevention of Defacement of Property Act 2013,
stated that no one is authorized or allowed to display/ mount any banner of any
political party, slogans etc in the premises of hospitals, health institutions,
health facilities which may cause defacement or disfigure the image of an ideal
environment and ambience of healthcare facility.

The violators will be   dealt with iron hand under the relevant clauses of the
acts. The heads and incharges of the hospitals have been directed to implement
the executive order in letter and spirit.

President Pakistan Paramedical Staff Association (PPMSA) Sindh Niaz Hussain
Bhutto, when contacted, welcomed the provincial government notification for
removal of wallchalking, posters and banners of medical wings of various
political and ethnic parties from the premises of public hospitals.

He told newsmen that the medical wings of political parties have converted the
healthcares institutions into political arenas by installing huge banners, party
flags and posters of their leaders in the premises hospitals and administration
seems helpless in front of these powerful political activists, who are also the
government servants of health department Sindh.

He said the hospitals have been established to provide treatment facilities to
general public regardless of their race, creed, community, linguistic background
and caste but some political and linguistic parties have established their
medical wings in these hospitals. He said the heads of these public hospitals
are helpless before these medical wings backed by powerful political parties.

He demanded of the health minister, secretary health Sindh and other highups to
close the political parties' medical wings offices established inside the
hospitals. He said only nonpolitical unions and organizations of employees
should be allowed to work in peaceful and legal manner for rights of the
employees.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


