                              17 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday

Sri Lanka: Hospitals not overtaxed

LENGTH: 407  words

DATELINE: Colombo


Colombo, April 11 -- A few isolated incidents of election violence were reported
in the two days of polling and counting of votes from some parts of the country.

The media contacted some of the main hospitals countrywide to have an overview
of the situation.

The Director of the National Hospital, Dr. Hector Weerasinghe said his hospital
had not received any victims of election violence by last afternoon.

The Kalubowila Teaching Hospital had received four victims who had been
assaulted by their political rivals. The Director of the Hospital Dr. Anil
Jasinghe said the victims had sustained only minor injuries.

The Accident Service of the Kurunegala Teaching Hospital said there had been
several cases. "There were several people who had sustained injuries in clashes,
but we cannot say how many," a spokesman for the Hospital said.

Badulla Provincial Hospital said they had not received any victims of election
violence.

The Anuradhapura Teaching Hospital said that two persons had been brought in
with injuries. Both had been assaulted.

The Galle Karapitiya Teaching Hospital said they had not received any victims of
political violence.

by Dilanthi Jayamanne

A few isolated incidents of election violence were reported in the two days of
polling and counting of votes from some parts of the country.

The media contacted some of the main hospitals countrywide to have an overview
of the situation.

The Director of the National Hospital, Dr. Hector Weerasinghe said his hospital
had not received any victims of election violence by last afternoon.

The Kalubowila Teaching Hospital had received four victims who had been
assaulted by their political rivals. The Director of the Hospital Dr. Anil
Jasinghe said the victims had sustained only minor injuries.

The Accident Service of the Kurunegala Teaching Hospital said there had been
several cases. "There were several people who had sustained injuries in clashes,
but we cannot say how many," a spokesman for the Hospital said.

Badulla Provincial Hospital said they had not received any victims of election
violence.

The Anuradhapura Teaching Hospital said that two persons had been brought in
with injuries. Both had been assaulted.

The Galle Karapitiya Teaching Hospital said they had not received any victims of
political violence. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


