                              165 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Minister orders removal of banners of political parties from hospitals

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 319

LENGTH: 377  words


Sindh Minister for Health, Jam Mehtab Hussain Dahar on Thursday sought immediate
removal of banners and posters of different political parties and groups from
all government hospitals in the province.

Chairing a departmental meeting in his office, he directed the medical
superintendents and administrators of public sector health facilities in the
province to also ensure immediate wiping away of graffiti by activists in
support of their respective political affiliations.

"This is high time to ensure that hospitals and healthcare facilities are meant
for public service and are not used as political battle fields," said Jam Mehtab
Hussain.

He reiterated that a healthy and apolitical environment must be urgently created
in healthcare centres so as to facilitate patients in seeking uninterrupted
assistance, otherwise noticed to be hindered under pretext of protest by
elements claiming to have their varied political affiliations.

"This is not acceptable and would not be tolerated," said the provincial
minister for health. During the meeting the Minister Jam Mehtab also took
exception to vacant post of gynaecologist at Civil Hospital, Umerkot.

He directed the Special Secretary for Health, Dr. Khalid Shaikh to ensure
immediate appointment of a qualified gynaecologist at the hospital, with due
consideration towards her necessary presence and timely deliverance of service
to the women belonging to the remote area.

"These women must not suffer due to absence of gynaecologists and other relevant
professionals assigned responsibilities, against salaries and perks," said Jab
Mehtab Hussain Dahar.

He also urged the concerned authorities to ensure that all public sector
hospitals, including those functional in less developed areas, remain well
equipped, with ready availability of all relevant medicines, drugs and
disposable and also manned by qualified and trained personnel.

During the meeting the provincial health minister also took stock of reported
mishandling of polio workers during the recently concluded special polio
immunization campaign in 11 high risk districts.

Instances of vaccine dropping and reported carelessness of these workers cannot
be tolerated and the matter would be duly investigated so as to bring to task
the miscreants, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


