                              180 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday

Parking fee explanation disgraceful, advocate says

BYLINE: SHAWN BERRY LEGISLATURE BUREAU

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 342  words


FREDERICTON - News that $5,000 from parking fees collected at New Brunswick
hospitals was used to attend a political fundraiser is disgraceful, A seniors
advocate says.

CÃ©cile Cassista said on Wednesday that the Horizon Health Network's explanation
that money collected from parking fees is used to pay for participation in
community events should prompt a new look at the burden those levies impose on
users.

"People can't afford to go visit their loved ones in the hospital, they can't
afford that ...

"It's very costly," said Cassista, executive director of the Coalition for
Seniors and Nursing Home Residents' Rights.

"Every day I've gone to a hospital I've had to pay, even for a medical checkup.
That's unacceptable."

Cassista said that until now, she, like many others, never stopped to consider
where the money was going, but she said she wouldn't have thought it was leaving
the hospital budget.

"In hindsight, I would have thought it was going back into the hospital sector,
into the health-care system. But now I hear they're buying tickets for political
parties, that's absolutely no question they shouldn't be doing that."

An editorial in the Canadian Medical Association Journal in November said
parking fees at hospitals flout the founding principles of the Canada Health
Act, which states Canadians should have access to health care without financial
or other barriers.

The editorial, by interim editor-in-chief Dr. Rajendra Kale, states the charges
interfere with patient care and should be dropped by Canadian hospitals.

Horizon Health recently ruled that parking fees will be introduced at the
regional hospital in Miramichi.

Cassista said that if parking fees are going to remain in place, health
authorities should remain accountable for every penny they spend.

"There are better places for that money," she said. She would like to see that
money go to help home-care support.

"Parking is like a cash cow to them, obviously, if they're just handing it out
for political rallies," Cassista said. "I think it's just disgraceful, quite
frankly."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2012 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


