                              197 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 2, 2017 Friday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
Louisiana: BRENDA ANDRUS, Plaintiff VERSUS UNUM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
AMERICA, Defendant

LENGTH: 5962  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of Louisiana has
issued the following order:
1
 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
 EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA
 BRENDA ANDRUS,
 Plaintiff
 CIVIL ACTION
 VERSUS
 NO. 16-1112
 UNUM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA,
 Defendant
 SECTION: "E" (1)


 ORDER AND REASONS
 Before the Court is Defendant Unum Life Insurance Company of America's motion
for partial summary judgment that the group long-term disability policy at issue
is subject to ERISA.1 The Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing the Opelousas
General Health System is a governmental entity exempt from ERISA.2 For the
reasons below, the motion for partial summary judgment is DENIED.
 BACKGROUND
 The Plaintiff, Brenda Andrus, worked as a case manager at Opelousas General
Hospital.3 The Defendant, Unum Life Insurance Company of America ("Unum") issued
a group long-term disability policy to employees of Opelousas General Health
System ("the Plan.")4 The Plaintiff alleges she suffers from a number of medical
conditions that prevent her from continuing to work, and that she is disabled
under the terms of the Plan.5 Unum denies the Plaintiff is eligible for
long-term disability benefits. The Plaintiff also alleges her medical condition
qualifies her for waiver of life insurance premium benefits under the Plan's
terms. The Plaintiff seeks penalties against Unum under the Louisiana
 1 R. Doc. 20.
 2 R. Doc. 21.
 3 R. Doc. 1 at 2.
 4 R. Doc. 20-2 at 2; id. at 12-51.
 5 R. Doc. 1 at 2. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 1
of 16
 2
 Insurance Code, alleging Unum's failure to pay her claims is arbitrary and
capricious.6 Plaintiff also brings a state-law claim for emotional distress.
 Unum seeks judgment as a matter of law that the Plan is an ERISA plan and that,
as a result, the Plaintiff's state-law claims are preempted, the evidence is
constrained to the administrative record, discovery is limited, and the matter
may not be submitted to a jury.
 SUMMARY JUDGMENT STANDARD
 Summary judgment is appropriate only "if the movant shows that there is no
genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law."7 "An issue is material if its resolution could affect the
outcome of the action."8 When assessing whether a material factual dispute
exists, the Court considers "all of the evidence in the record but refrains from
making credibility determinations or weighing the evidence."9 All reasonable
inferences are drawn in favor of the nonmoving party.10 There is no genuine
issue of material fact if, even viewing the evidence in the light most favorable
to the nonmoving party, no reasonable trier of fact could find for the nonmoving
party, thus entitling the moving party to judgment as a matter of law.11
 If the dispositive issue is one on which the moving party will bear the burden
of persuasion at trial, the moving party "must come forward with evidence which
would 'entitle it to a directed verdict if the evidence went uncontroverted at
trial.'"12 If the
 6 R. Doc. 1 at 3.
 7 FED. R. CIV. P. 56; see also Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322-23
(1986).
 8 DIRECTV Inc. v. Robson, 420 F.3d 532, 536 (5th Cir. 2005).
 9 Delta & Pine Land Co. v. Nationwide Agribusiness Ins. Co., 530 F.3d 395, 398
(5th Cir. 2008); see also Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Prods., Inc., 530 U.S.
133, 150-51 (2000).
 10 Little v. Liquid Air Corp., 37 F.3d 1069, 1075 (5th Cir. 1994).
 11 Smith v. Amedisys, Inc., 298 F.3d 434, 440 (5th Cir. 2002).
 12 Int'l Shortstop, Inc. v. Rally's, Inc., 939 F.2d 1257, 1263-64 (5th Cir.
1991) (quoting Golden Rule Ins. Co. v. Lease, 755 F. Supp. 948, 951 (D. Colo.
1991)). Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 2 of 16
 3
 moving party fails to carry this burden, the motion must be denied. If the
moving party successfully carries this burden, the burden of production then
shifts to the nonmoving party to direct the Court's attention to something in
the pleadings or other evidence in the record setting forth specific facts
sufficient to establish that a genuine issue of material fact does indeed
exist.13
 If the dispositive issue is one on which the nonmoving party will bear the
burden of persuasion at trial, the moving party may satisfy its burden of
production by either (1) submitting affirmative evidence that negates an
essential element of the nonmovant's claim, or (2) demonstrating there is no
evidence in the record to establish an essential element of the nonmovant's
claim.14 When proceeding under the first option, if the nonmoving party cannot
muster sufficient evidence to dispute the movant's contention that there are no
disputed facts, a trial would be useless, and the moving party is entitled to
summary judgment as a matter of law.15 When, however, the movant is proceeding
under the second option and is seeking summary judgment on the ground that the
nonmovant has no evidence to establish an essential element of the claim, the
nonmoving party may defeat a motion for summary judgment by "calling the Court's
attention to supporting evidence already in the record that was overlooked or
ignored by the moving
 13 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 322-24.
 14 Id. at 331-32 (Brennan, J., dissenting); see also St. Amant v. Benoit, 806
F.2d 1294, 1297 (5th Cir. 1987) (citing Justice Brennan's statement of the
summary judgment standard in Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322-24
(1986), and requiring the movants to submit affirmative evidence to negate an
essential element of the nonmovant's claim or, alternatively, demonstrate the
nonmovant's evidence is insufficient to establish an essential element); Fano v.
O'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (citing Justice Brennan's dissent in Celotex, and
requiring the movant to make an affirmative presentation to negate the
nonmovant's claims on summary judgment); 10A CHARLES ALAN WRIGHT, ARTHUR R.
MILLER & MARY KAY KANE, FEDERAL PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE §2727.1 (2016) ("Although
the Court issued a five-to-four decision, the majority and dissent both agreed
as to how the summary-judgment burden of proof operates; they disagreed as to
how the standard was applied to the facts of the case." (internal citations
omitted)).
 15 First National Bank of Arizona v. Cities Service Co., 391 U.S. 253, 288-89
(1980);
 Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 249-50 (1986). Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 3 of 16
 4
 party."16 Under either scenario, the burden then shifts back to the movant to
demonstrate the inadequacy of the evidence relied upon by the nonmovant.17 If
the movant meets this burden, "the burden of production shifts [back again] to
the nonmoving party, who must either (1) rehabilitate the evidence attacked in
the moving party's papers, (2) produce additional evidence showing the existence
of a genuine issue for trial as provided in Rule 56(e), or (3) submit an
affidavit explaining why further discovery is necessary as provided in Rule
56(f)."18 "Summary judgment should be granted if the nonmoving party fails to
respond in one or more of these ways, or if, after the nonmoving party responds,
the court determines that the moving party has met its ultimate burden of
persuading the court that there is no genuine issue of material fact for
trial."19
 LAW AND ANALYSIS
 The Plaintiff seeks to recover from Unum benefits allegedly due to her under
the Plan. In its motion, Unum seeks a determination that the Plan is governed by
ERISA section 502(a)(1)(B), codified at 29 U.S.C. § 1132(a)(1)(B).20 In
response, the Plaintiff argues the Plan is exempt from ERISA pursuant to 29
U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1), which expressly excludes government plans.
 It is undisputed that the Opelousas General Hospital System obtained the group
long-term disability policy for its eligible employees from Unum.21 The material
facts surrounding the creation of OGHS also are undisputed.
 16 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 332-33.
 17 Id.
 18 Celotex, 477 U.S. at 332-33, 333 n.3.
 19 Id.; see also First National Bank of Arizona, 391 U.S at 289.
 20 See McCall v. Burlington N./Santa Fe Co., 237 F.3d 506, 512 (5th Cir. 2000)
("When a beneficiary wants what was supposed to have been distributed under a
plan, the appropriate remedy is a claim for denial of benefits under §
502(a)(1)(B) of ERISA rather than a fiduciary claim brought pursuant to §
502(a)(3).").
 21 R. Doc. 20-2 Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 4 of
16
 5
 In 1953, the St. Landry Parish Police Jury, now known as the St. Landry Parish
Council,22 created the Hospital Service District No. 2, which is a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana.23 The Hospital Service District No. 2 is
statutorily authorized to enter into an agreement with a third party for the
third party to manage and operate a hospital for the benefit of the service
district.24 On September 21, 1954, the citizens of Opelousas voted to pass a
one-mill ad valorem tax for 20 years to pay for part of the hospital
construction.25 Pursuant to its statutory authority, the Hospital Service
District No. 2 entered into a lease agreement with the Hospital Corporation of
the Sisters of Marianites of the Holy Cross for it to operate the newly
constructed hospital.26 In 1971, the Hospital Service District No. 2 submitted
another bond proposal to fund the expansion of the hospital, but the proposal
was defeated by the voters.27 In response, a number of members of the Board of
Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2 created a public
trust--Opelousas General Hospital Authority d/b/a Opelousas General Hospital
System ("OGHS").28 The Hospital Service District No. 2 is the beneficiary of the
public trust. Pursuant to the Trust Indenture, the five Commissioners for the
Hospital Service District No. 2 serve as five of the nine Trustees of OGHS.29
 Because the Court finds the material facts in this matter not to be in dispute,
the Court will determine whether Unum is entitled to judgment as a matter of law
that Plaintiff's long-term disability plan is an ERISA plan.
 22 The Court will refer to the St. Landry Parish Police Jury by its current
name, the "Parish Council."
 23 R. Doc. 20-5; Bertrand v. Sandoz, 255 So. 2d 754, 755 (La. 1971).
 24 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055.
 25 Bertrand, 255 So. 2d at 756.
 26 Id.
 27 Id.
 28 Id. at 757.
 29 Bertrand, 255 So. 2d at 758. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 5 of 16
 6
 ERISA comprehensively regulates employee benefit plans.30 If a participant in
an employee benefit plan could have brought her claim under ERISA, ERISA
completely preempts her other causes of action.31 Whether a participant could
have brought her suit under ERISA turns on whether the plan is an "ERISA
plan."32 Although ERISA's scope is expansive, certain types of employee benefit
plans are excluded from coverage.
 Title 29, United States Code, Section 1003(b)(1) provides that ERISA "shall
not" apply to any employee benefit plan if such a plan is a "governmental
plan."33 ERISA defines a "governmental plan" as "[a] plan established or
maintained for its employees by the Government of the United States, by the
government of any State or political subdivision thereof, or by any agency or
instrumentality of the foregoing."34
 The Court must therefore determine whether OGHS, which established and now
maintains the Plaintiff's long-term disability plan, is (1) a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana, or (2) an agency or instrumentality of a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana. If OGHS is either a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana or an agency or instrumentality of a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana, the employee benefit plan it
established and maintains is a "governmental plan" exempt from ERISA.
 I. Political Subdivision
 The Court will first examine whether OGHS is a political subdivision of the
State of Louisiana. ERISA does not define the term "political subdivision."35
For the purpose of
 30 Aetna Health Inc. v. Davila, 542 U.S. 200, 208 (2004).
 31 Id. at 209-10.
 32 Hanson v. Continental Ins. Co., 940 F.2d 971, 976 (5th Cir. 1991).
 33 29 U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1).
 34 29 U.S.C. § 1002(32). There is no statutory language in ERISA that defines
the terms "political subdivision," "agency" or "instrumentality."
 35 Smith, 2015 WL 6442337 at *7 (E.D. La. Oct. 23, 2015) (citing Koval v. Wash.
Cnty. Redevelopment Auth., 574 F.3d 238, 240 (3d Cir. 2009)). Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 6 of 16
 7
 discerning whether an entity is a political subdivision under ERISA, the Fifth
Circuit has adopted the Hawkins test formulated by the Supreme Court in NLRB v.
Natural Gas Utility District of Hawkins County.36 Under the Hawkins test, an
entity is a political subdivision if it is either "(1) created directly by the
state, so as to constitute departments or administrative arms of the government,
or (2) administered by individuals who are responsible to public officials or to
the general electorate."37
 The Plaintiff need only establish that OGHS fits the definition of a political
subdivision under one prong or the other of the Hawkins test. The Court will
first address the second prong, whether OGHS is "administered by individuals who
are responsible to public officials or to the general electorate."38
 Unum argues OGHS is not a political subdivision because it "is not administered
by individuals who are responsible to public officials or to the general
public."39 Unum further contends the members of the Board of Trustees of OGHS
are all individual citizens serving in their private capacities.40 The
Plaintiff, on the other hand, argues there is little difference between the
administration of the Hospital Service District No. 2, which the parties agree
is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana, and OGHS.41 To determine
whether OGHS is administered by individuals who are responsible to public
officials or the general electorate, the Court will examine OGHS's governance
structure.
 36 Smith v. Reg'l Transit Auth., 827 F.3d 412, 417 (5th Cir. 2016); 402 U.S.
600 (1971).
 37 Smith, 827 F.3d at 417 (quoting Hawkins Cnty., 402 U.S. at 604-05).
 38 Hawkins Cnty., 402 U.S. at 604-05.
 39 R. Doc. 20-1 at 21.
 40 Id. at 24.
 41 R. Doc. 21 at 13. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
7 of 16
 8
 The governing body of St. Landry Parish is the St. Landry Parish Council
("Parish Council").42 The publicly elected members of the Parish Council appoint
five Commissioners to the Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2.43
These five Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2 are a majority
of the Trustees on the Board of Trustees of OGHS.44 The original Trust Indenture
states "the Trustees of this Trust shall be . . . the persons presently
constituting the members of the governing Commission of the [Hospital Service
District No. 2]."45 The Amended Trust Indenture increased the number of Trustees
of OGHS to nine, but these additional Trustees also are appointed by the
Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2.46 The only limitation on
the appointments by the Hospital Service District No. 2 is the additional four
Trustees must be residents of St. Landry Parish.47 The Trust Indenture provides
that officers of the Commission and OGHS are identical.48
 42 See ST. LANDRY PARISH, Home Rule Charter, available at
http://stlandryparish.org/government/home-rule-charter.
 43 R. Doc. 20-5 at 1. The members of the Commission of the Hospital Service
District No. 2 are appointed by the St. Landry Parish Council. LA. REV. STAT.
ANN. § 46:1053(A) ("Any hospital service district formed or created under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be governed by a board of five commissioners,
hereafter referred to as commission, who shall be qualified voters and residents
of the district. The commission shall be appointed by the police jury of the
parish."). It is undisputed that both the St. Landry Parish Council and the
Hospital Service District No. 2 are political subdivisions of the State of
Louisiana. R. Doc. 20-11 at 3, &para;&para; 12-13; R. Doc. 21-1 at 4,
&para;&para; 12-13; LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055.
 44 R. Doc. 21-3 at 1, &para; 6. The Trust Indenture provides "[t]he Trustees of
this Trust shall be the same persons who are the Chairman and members of the
governing body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, and shall
remain as Trustees until such person or persons shall have been succeeded and
replaced by some other person or persons as Chairman and members of the
governing body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, and such
latter person or persons shall without any further act or deed automatically
become Trustees of this Trust." R. Doc. 21-2 at 4. Each of the Trustees of OGHS
is required to "take the oath of office required of public officials." LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 9:2343(A)(1).
 45 R. Doc. 21-2 at 3-4.
 46 R. Doc. 21-5.
 47 R. Doc. 21-5 at 2 ("The Trustees who shall constitute the Board of Trustees
of the Trust shall be appointed by the governing body of the Beneficiary . . .
."); id. at 3 ("The governing body of the Beneficiary shall appoint four (4)
additional Trustees.").
 48 R. Doc. 21-2 at 4-5 ("The person who shall be the Chairman of the governing
body (Commission) of the Hospital Service District No. 2, shall become
automatically the Chairman of the Trustees and shall preside at all meetings and
perform other duties designated by the Trustees. The person who shall be the
Vice Chairman of the Hospital Service District No. 2 shall be automatically the
Vice Chairman of the Trustees . . . . The person who shall be the Secretary of
the Hospital Service District No. 2 shall act as Secretary of the Trustees.").
Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 8 of 16
 9
 The Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2, as the governing
authority of the beneficiary of the Trust, has the power remove a Trustee of
OGHS for cause.49 The Board of Trustees of OGHS is required to adopt bylaws, but
the bylaws must be submitted to the "governing authority of the beneficiary"--in
this case, the Commission of Hospital Service District No. 2.50 The Commission
has the power to veto OGHS's bylaws or any proposed changes to its bylaws.51 The
Trust Indenture was required to be approved by the Commission of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 and by the Louisiana State Bond Commission.52 Amendments
to the Trust Indenture also must be approved by the Commission of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 and by the Louisiana State Bond Commission.53 In sum,
neither OGHS's bylaws nor its Trust Indenture may be changed without the consent
of the Commission of the Hospital Service District No. 2, which is appointed by
the Parish Council.
 The Court finds that OGHS is administered by individuals who are responsible to
public officials, namely the Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No.
2, which
 49 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2343(F)(3) ("In the case of persons appointed by the
governing authority of the beneficiary or by the governor, as the case may be,
such persons shall be appointed for a term not in excess of six years, and shall
be subject to removal for cause, as aforesaid, by or at the will of the
beneficiary.").
 50 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(C).
 51 Id. "[T]he governing authority of the beneficiary shall have the power to
veto all or part of the proposed bylaws." The Court notes that all meetings of
the Board of Trustees of OGHS are open to the public, and the minutes of each
meeting are public record to the same extent required by law for the
beneficiary--Hospital Service District No. 2. LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 19:2342(D)
("Meetings of the trustees of all public trusts shall be open to the public and
the records of all public trusts shall be public records to the same extent as
is required by law for the beneficiary."). Books, records, and minutes of each
OGHS Board of Trustees meeting are considered public records and are available
for inspection by the legislative auditor or any accountant or official
representative of the St. Landry Parish Council. R. Doc. 21-2 at 5.
 52 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(A) (A public trust may be created with the "(1)
express approval of the governor and two-thirds of the elected members of each
house of the legislature if the state of Louisiana or any state agency is the
beneficiary; (2) express approval of a majority of the membership of the
governing authority of the beneficiary and the State Bond Commission or its
successor if a parish or municipality or a political or governmental subdivision
thereof is the beneficiary; and (3) express approval of a majority of the
membership of the governing authority of the beneficiary and the State Bond
Commission or its successor, in all other cases." (emphasis added)).
 53 See R. Doc. 21-6 at 5, Section 3. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35
Filed 05/31/17 Page 9 of 16
 10
 is a political subdivision. The Commissioners of the Hospital Service District
No. 2 are responsible to the Parish Council, which also is a political
subdivision. OGHS is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana for the
purposes of ERISA because it is "administered by individuals who are responsible
to public officials or the general electorate."54
 Because the Court finds OGHS is a political subdivision of the State of
Louisiana, the employee benefit plan established and maintained by OGHS is a
"governmental plan," which is exempt from ERISA coverage pursuant to 29 U.S.C. §
1003(b)(1).55
 II. Agency or Instrumentality
 Alternatively, if OGHS is not itself a political subdivision of the State of
Louisiana, the Plaintiff's plan may nevertheless be a governmental plan exempt
from ERISA if OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service
District No. 2, a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana. ERISA does
not define "agency or instrumentality"
 54 Hawkins, 4002 U.S. at 604-05. Both OGHS and the State of Louisiana treat
OGHS as a governmental entity. First, OGHS completed a Client Information Form
in connection with its application for a long-term disability plan with Unum,
which indicated OGHS is exempt from ERISA. R. Doc. 20-2 at 6. The Court--not the
benefit plan--determines whether ERISA applies. Stern v. IBM Corp., 326 F.3d
1367 (11th Cir. 2003) (an employer's labeling of a plan does not determine
whether it is an ERISA plan). Although OGHS's labeling is not dispositive of
whether the Plaintiff's plan is an ERISA plan, the Court finds it telling that
OGHS considers itself exempt from ERISA and has not submitted the Form 5500
annual report with the Secretary of Labor, as required by ERISA for all ERISA
plans. R. Doc. 21-3. Second, the 2015 legislative audit of OGHS states "The
Opelousas General Hospital Authority (the "Hospital") was created under the laws
of the State of Louisiana pursuant to a Trust Indenture executed . . . for the
benefit of the [Hospital Service] District [No. 2] and is a public
instrumentality of the State of Louisiana." LOUISIANA LEGISLATIVE AUDITOR,
Hospital Service District No. 2 of St. Landry Parish, Louisiana and Opelousas
General Hospital Authority, Financial Report (Jun. 30, 2015), available at
https://
app.lla.state.la.us/PublicReports.nsf/05802C0CCCEC002E862580E2006C4718/$FILE/000
12B98.pdf. Third, OGHS--as a public trust--is exempt from state and federal
taxes, and the property of the Trust is considered public property. LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 9:2347(M) ("The property of any public trust . . . is hereby
declared to be public property used for essential public and governmental
purposes. . . . [S]uch public trust, and all of its properties at any time owned
by it and the income therefrom and all bonds issued by it and the income
therefrom, shall be exempt from all taxes of the parish or municipality, the
state, or any political subdivision thereof or any other taxing body.").
Finally, all meetings of the Board of Trustees of OGHS are open to the public,
and the minutes of each meeting are public record to the same extent required by
law for the beneficiary--Hospital Service District No. 2. LA. REV. STAT. ANN. §
19:2342(D) ("Meetings of the trustees of all public trusts shall be open to the
public and the records of all public trusts shall be public records to the same
extent as is required by law for the beneficiary.").
 55 Because OGHS need only meet one prong of the Hawkins test for the Court to
make a finding that OGHS is a political subdivision for the purposes of ERISA,
the Court will not consider whether OGHS was created directly by the state, so
as to constitute a department or administrative arm of the government. Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 10 of 16
 11
 for the purposes of determining whether a plan is exempt as a governmental
plan.56 The Fifth Circuit has adopted the six-factor test provided in Internal
Revenue Service Revenue Ruling 57-128, as refined by Internal Revenue Service
Revenue Ruling 89-49, as the appropriate test for determining whether an entity
is an agency or instrumentality of a governmental entity.57 In Revenue Ruling
57-128, the IRS set forth the following six factors to be considered in
determining whether a particular entity is an agency or instrumentality of a
state or political subdivision:
 (1) whether it is used for a governmental purpose and performs a governmental
function; (2) whether performance of its function is on behalf of one or more
states or political subdivisions; (3) whether there are any private interests
involved, or whether the states or political subdivisions involved have the
powers and interests of an owner; (4) whether control and supervision of the
organization is vested in public authority or authorities; (5) if express or
implied statutory or other authority is necessary for the creation and/or use of
such an instrumentality, and whether such authority exists; and (6) the degree
of financial autonomy and the source of its operating expenses.58
 Revenue Ruling 89-49 refined Revenue Rule 57-128, stating:
 One of the most important factors to be considered in determining whether an
organization is an agency or instrumentality of the United States or any state
or political subdivision is the degree of control that the federal or state
government has over the organization's everyday operations. Other factors
include: (1) whether there is specific legislation creating the organization;
(2) the source of funds for the organization; (3) the manner in which the
organization's trustees or operating board are selected; and (4) whether the
applicable governmental unit considers the employees of the organization to be
employees of the applicable governmental unit. Although all of the above factors
are considered in determining whether an organization is an agency of a
government, the mere satisfaction of one or all of the factors is not
necessarily determinative.59
 56 Smith, 827 F.3d at 417-18.
 57 Id. at 420.
 58 Rev. Rul. 57-128, 1957-1 C.B. 311.
 59 Rev. Rul. 89-49, 1989-1 C.B. 117. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35
Filed 05/31/17 Page 11 of 16
 12
 The Court must consider the factors provided in these Revenue Rulings to
determine whether OGHS is either an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital
Service District No. 2.
 First, OGHS was created "for the public purposes hereinafter set forth as a
public instrumentality of the state or a subdivision or agency thereof, under
the provisions of Act. No. 135, 1970, [Louisiana Revised Statutes] 9:2341, et
seq."60 Louisiana's public trust statute states that a public trust may be
created "to issue obligations and to provide funds for the furtherance and
accomplishment of any authorized public functions"61 such as "hospital, medical,
health, nursery care, nursing care, clinical, ambulance, laboratory and related
services and entities."62 The Court finds Unum's argument that providing
hospital services is not a "traditional government function" unpersuasive.63
Louisiana's public trust statute expressly provides that a public trust may be
created for the "public function" of administering hospital and medical
services. Accordingly, the Court finds this factor weighs in favor of finding
OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 Second, OGHS performs its functions on behalf of the Hospital Service District
No. 2, a political subdivision of Louisiana. Pursuant to the Trust Indenture,
the Hospital Service District No. 2 is the beneficiary of the public trust, and
is the owner of the hospital. OGHS provides the day-to-day operations of the
hospital, but the hospital exists "for the use and benefit" of the Hospital
Service District No. 2.64 This factor weighs in favor of
 60 R. Doc. 21-2 at 1.
 61 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(A).
 62 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 9:2341(B)(1)(a).
 63 R. Doc. 20-1.
 64 R. Doc. 21-2 at 1. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
12 of 16
 13
 finding OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District
No. 2, a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 Third, although there are private interests involved, as the members of the
Board of Trustees serve in their capacities as citizens of St. Landry Parish,
the Hospital Service District No. 2 has the powers and interests of an owner.
Although OGHS runs the day-to-day operations of the hospital, the Hospital
Service District No. 2 is the owner. The January 25, 1972 Resolution of Hospital
Service District No. 2 transferred the management and supervision of the
Opelousas General Hospital to "the Opelousas General Hospital Authority, a
Public Trust, . . . pursuant to the terms and conditions of a Management
Contract executed by and between the Hospital Service District No. 2 of St.
Landry Parish, Louisiana, as Owner and the Opelousas General Hospital Authority,
a Public Trust, as Manager."65 Further, as discussed above, the Hospital Service
District No. 2 has the power to appoint and remove members of the OGHS Board of
Trustees, a majority of whom are Commissioners of the Hospital Service District
No. 2. This factor weighs in favor of finding OGHS is an agency or
instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a political subdivision
of the State of Louisiana.
 Consideration of the fourth factor--whether control and supervision of the
organization is vested in public authority--is highly contested by the parties,
as there are facts that support both arguments. On the one hand, neither the St.
Landry Parish Council nor the Hospital Service District No. 2 controls the
finances or day-to-day operations of the hospital. OGHS generates its own
funding, hires its own employees, and provides its
 65 R. Doc. 21-7 at 1 (emphasis added). Further, the statutory purpose of the
Hospital Service District No. 2 is "to own and operate hospitals." LA. REV.
STAT. ANN. § 46:1052. Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page
13 of 16
 14
 own benefits.66 The Trust Indenture provides the Hospital Service District No.
2 has no "authority, power or right, whatsoever, to do or transact any business
for, or on behalf of, or binding upon the Trustees or upon the Trust Estate."67
On the other hand, as discussed above, the Board of Trustees, which conducts the
affairs of the OGHS, is appointed by the Hospital Service District No. 2. Five
of the nine Trustees are Commissioners of the Hospital Service District No. 2,
who are appointed by the St. Landry Parish Council. In reality, control of OGHS
is vested the Hospital Service District No. 2 as the Commission controls the
governing board of OGHS. This factor weighs in favor of finding OGHS is an
agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a political
subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 The fifth factor directs the Court to consider whether express or implied
statutory authority is necessary "for the creation and/or use of . . . an
instrumentality."68 The statute governing the Hospital Service District No. 2
authorizes it "to enter into lease agreements with recognized and duly
constituted nonprofit associations which are primarily engaged in the operation
of hospitals,"69 such as OGHS. Although no special act of the legislature
brought OGHS into existence, the use of OGHS to manage, operate, and administer
a hospital is legislatively authorized.70 This factor weighs in favor of finding
OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service District No. 2, a
political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
 66 The parties agree that employees of OGHS are not employees of the Hospital
Service District No. 2 or the Parish Council.
 67 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 68 Rev. Rul. 57-128, 1957-1 C.B. 311.
 69 LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 46:1055(A)(9).
 70 Id. at § 1055(B) ("[T]he commission may enter into a special services
agreement with any person, including but not limited to a hospital management
firm or hospitals, to manage, operate, and administer a hospital or hospitals,
or any part thereof, under the control of the commission for the benefit of the
hospital service district."). Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 14 of 16
 15
 The sixth factor--degree of financial autonomy--weighs against OGHS being an
agency or instrumentality of a political subdivision. Under the terms of the
Trust Indenture, all debts of OGHS are payable solely from the Trust Estate.71
The Trust Indenture provides the Hospital Service District No. 2, as
beneficiary, "shall have no liability for any bonds, notes, or indebtedness of
any type whatsoever of the Trust" and will have no "liability for costs incurred
in the operation of the Trust, or for any actions or omission of the Trustees or
others representing the Trust."72 Further, the Hospital Service District No. 2
has "no legal title, claim or right to the Trust Estate, its income, or to any
part thereof, or to demand or require any partition or distribution thereof."73
The Court finds OGHS to be financially autonomous with respect to the Hospital
Service District No. 2, and this factor weighs against finding OGHS is an agency
or instrumentality of a political subdivision.
 Examining the factors to be considered in determining whether an entity is an
agent or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision, the Court
concludes that OGHS is an agency or instrumentality of the Hospital Service
District No. 2, which is a political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.74
Therefore, the Court finds the Plaintiff's plan is a governmental plan exempt
from ERISA's coverage pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 1003(b)(1).75
 Accordingly;
 71 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 72 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 73 R. Doc. 21-2 at 11.
 74 The Court recognizes that Revenue Ruling 89-49 refined Revenue Ruling 57-128
by stating the "control" factor is the most important. The Court has given due
weight to this factor in its analysis.
 75 Although the Court lacks federal question subject matter jurisdiction
because of the finding that ERISA does not apply, the Court maintains subject
matter jurisdiction over this matter because the parties are diverse.
Accordingly, this matter will remain on the Court's docket, the Court will apply
Louisiana law, and the Plaintiff is entitled to a jury trial. Case
2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed 05/31/17 Page 15 of 16
 16
 CONCLUSION
 IT IS ORDERED that the motion for partial summary judgment filed by Unum Life
Insurance Company of America is DENIED.
 New Orleans, Louisiana, this 31st day of May, 2017.
 _____________________________
 SUSIE MORGAN
 UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE Case 2:16-cv-01112-SM-JCW Document 35 Filed
05/31/17 Page 16 of 16
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


