                              315 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                   Hunts Post

                             May 4, 2016 Wednesday

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 645 words


Organisers say hundreds of people attended a protest march calling for plans to
force Hinchingbrooke Hospital into a merger with Peterborough Hospital to be
scrapped.

Jointly organised by Huntingdon MP Jonathan Djanogly and the Hands off
Hinchingbrooke group, the march, held on Saturday, saw protestors march from
Riverside Park up to the hospital itself.



Mr Djanogly said he was "delighted" with the turnout and show of support for the
hospital.

He told The Hunts Post: "Present were representatives of all political parties,
unions, friendship groups and non-connected local people, all of whom view
Hinchingbrooke as a vital part of our local community.

"The marchers had three agreed requests; there should be no merger between
Hinchingbrooke and Peterborough hospitals, Hinchingbrooke should retain its
services, and the proposals to be announced by the respective trusts later this
month should be subject to full local consultation.

"We continue to collect signatures for our petition against merger and I shall,
if necessary, pursue our campaign at the highest levels in Westminster. But
let's hope that the hospital boards and the regional NHS listen to what local
residents and their patients so clearly wish to see."

It was announced in January that Hinchingbrooke Hospital could lose some of the
main functions of its accident and emergency department, and some key services
could be moved to other hospitals as part of a proposed merger with Peterborough
and Stamford Hospitals NHS Trusts.

According to Mr Djanogly, Hinchingbrooke's A & E, obstetrics, and maternity
departments were being considered as part of a review that could lead to a
merger.

The Hinchingbrooke and Peterborough NHS Trust boards signed a memorandum of
understanding in December and agreed to look at the business case for merging
the hospitals.

The Hinchingbrooke Health Care Trust's board is holding a public meeting to
discuss possible collaboration with Peterborough on Monday, May 23, at 11am in
the partnership suite at the hospital.

Jointly organised by Huntingdon MP Jonathan Djanogly and the Hands off
Hinchingbrooke group, the march, held on Saturday, saw protestors march from
Riverside Park up to the hospital itself.

Mr Djanogly said he was "delighted" with the turnout and show of support for the
hospital.

He told The Hunts Post: "Present were representatives of all political parties,
unions, friendship groups and non-connected local people, all of whom view
Hinchingbrooke as a vital part of our local community.

"The marchers had three agreed requests; there should be no merger between
Hinchingbrooke and Peterborough hospitals, Hinchingbrooke should retain its
services, and the proposals to be announced by the respective trusts later this
month should be subject to full local consultation.

"We continue to collect signatures for our petition against merger and I shall,
if necessary, pursue our campaign at the highest levels in Westminster. But
let's hope that the hospital boards and the regional NHS listen to what local
residents and their patients so clearly wish to see."

It was announced in January that Hinchingbrooke Hospital could lose some of the
main functions of its accident and emergency department, and other key services
could be moved to other hospitals as part of a proposed merger with Peterborough
and Stamford Hospitals NHS trusts.

According to Mr Djanogly, Hinchingbrooke's A & E, obstetrics, and maternity
departments were being considered as part of a review that could lead to a
merger.

The Hinchingbrooke and Peterborough NHS Trust boards signed a memorandum of
understanding in December and agreed to look at the business case for merging
the hospitals.

The Hinchingbrooke Health Care Trust's board is holding a public meeting to
discuss possible collaboration with Peterborough on Monday, May 23, at 11am in
the partnership suite at the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HPT


                    Copyright 2016 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


