                              432 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            February 7, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan: Terror attack on Karachi hospital

LENGTH: 661  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Feb. 07 -- The Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre bomb blast, which
left 13 people dead and many more wounded on Friday afternoon, also disrupted
emergency services at the JPMC as doctors and paramedical staff ran for
safety.According to our correspondent, those accompanying the victims and
volunteers were enraged by the absence of the doctors and paramedical staff as
they rushed in fresh bodies and wounded.They resorted to vandalism, smashing
everything that came their way and shouting slogans against political parties
and the hospital management.The doctors and staff were attending to the wounded
of the first blast in different wards when a big explosion took place in front
of the emergency and casualty section of the hospital, causing 13 deaths and
serious injuries to a number of people, including relatives of the victims of
the first blast, rescue workers and media persons.After dispatching 12 bodies of
the first blast's victims to a private hospital, JPMC doctors were working on a
plan prepared in consultation with high-ups in the administration, including the
district coordination officer of Karachi, leaders of the Shia community and
volunteers for shifting the wounded to private hospitals. But the hospital blast
and subsequent mayhem disrupted the process and delayed the shifting for another
hour or more.After the second blast, at around 4.45pm, doctors, paramedics and
other people inside the emergency centre had run out in panic and confusion,
deserting the emergency section.As the explosion raised a plume of dust and
people ran helter-skelter, chaos prevailed outside the emergency section
also.Community workers as well as ambulance staff, mostly belonging to various
non-governmental and social organisations, rushed inside the emergency section,
carrying the bodies of the latest victims and wounded.

But there was nobody to receive them even in the resuscitation room of the
emergency, which was damaged in the blast.The emotionally-charged volunteers
shouted slogans against the government and political parties and took the
victims out of the emergency and rushed them to other hospitals.Noted social
worker Abdus Sattar Edhi, who was supervising his ambulance and rescue workers
handling the victims of the first blast, was in his vehicle near the site of the
second blast, but remained unhurt. "You can see I am safe and unhurt," he told
this reporter in a state of utter grief and desperation.At least four
motorcycles and four ambulances of the Edhi centre were badly damaged in the
hospital blast. The hospital staff and visitors accused the security agency
personnel of having lax vigilance and casual restrictive measures on the
hospital premises.Outside the main building of the hospital, 10-year-old Meena,
a resident of Abyssinia Line, told media people how she saw the blast
occur.According to her, she and her two brothers had come there to see their
relatives, but she lost track of her brothers after the blast.She said while
standing near the emergency centre she saw a man riding a bicycle and operating
a device he held in his hand, following which a television placed on a nearby
motorbike blew up and she saw parts of human bodies flying into the air.Hassan
Javed, a former office-bearer of a Shia association of Saudabad, said that there
were 65 to 70 people, including children, in the bus run by the Hussaini
Safaratkhana Imambargah in Saudabad.The bus had started off at 2pm from the RCD
Ground to take its passengers to the main Chehlum procession.An official of the
provincial health department said that about 78 people injured in the two blasts
were admitted to the Aga Khan Hospital, Liaquat National Hospital, Civil
Hospital Karachi and the National Medical Centre.In all, 133 people were injured
in the Friday blasts. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


