                              423 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            February 6, 1994, Sunday

Crystal ball shows GOP in our future

BYLINE: By Elliott Brack

SECTION: EXTRA; Section J; Page 13

LENGTH: 559 words


These last few Sundays we've been gazing into a crystal ball, giving you our
projections concerning the future. We've talked about the Gwinnett County
airport and about the possibility of a big Atlanta hospital running the Gwinnett
Hospital System.

Today here's another gaze into the future, one more political. Let's look at a
future governor's race, though what year is hard to say. The immediate question
might be: Is it possible we're addressing the 1994 governor's race?

Gwinnett County might serve as a beacon, or warning bell (depending on your
viewpoint) about what might happen in Georgia when it comes to a race for
governor.

Following the 1984 General Election, perhaps the most surprised people in all of
Gwinnett County were the candidates of the Republican Party. They all won. We
suspect few actually had thought that they had much chance of victory against
the previously entrenched Democratic Party candidates.

But in 17 of 18 slots, the Republicans won. The 18th race could have gone to the
GOP that year, too, but they did not field a candidate for probate judge.

Ever since 1984, Gwinnett has solidly lined up in the GOP column. It's to the
point that some people who might otherwise run as Democrats now cloak themselves
as Republicans, in order to have a chance of winning. Democrats have essentially
struck out in every local race in Gwinnett since 1984. That party is dragging
bottom.

Gwinnett voters have also given statewide GOP candidates good support. In the
1990 General Election in Gwinnett, Johnny Isakson polled 51,755 votes, compared
to 40,307 for Zell Miller.

Georgia voters have not as readily embraced the GOP as have Gwinnett residents.
The state is still considered relatively solidly Democratic, with that party
having the governor, control of the Legislature, one U.S. senator and seven of
11 U.S. representatives from the Democratic side.

Yet one Wednesday morning some November day in the future, while Democrats have
been asleep at the switch, Georgians are going to awaken and find a Republican
elected governor.

It may happen sooner than we think. For instance, in the 1990 General Election,
while Miller and Democrats stayed in power, there were quite a few Republican
votes cast for Isakson for governor.

Miller won with 53 percent of the vote. Isakson finished second with 44 percent
of the vote, and the candidate of the Libertarian Party scored 3 percent.

In actual numbers, Miller polled 717,234 votes, while Isakson garnered 590,252,
a difference of 126,982 votes. To show you how close the vote was, the
difference in the Democratic and Republican vote for governor is only 4.7
percent of the total vote cast. If 64,000 had voted for Republicans, Isakson
would now be your governor.

Take this one step further. The increase in the registered voters in three
counties - Cobb, Cherokee and Gwinnett - could heavily benefit the Republican
Party, which now controls all three counties.

Between the 1990 and 1994 General Elections, it's possible that another 100,000
voters may be newly registered in these three counties alone. With a good GOP
turnout, that could wipe out the 64,000-vote victory by the Democrats in the
1990 governor's race.

The crystal ball says: Power is shifting toward Republicans in Georgia. And, as
Gwinnett has shown, this shift often can come quite suddenly.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH940400156

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


