                              445 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday

Political interference feared: Committees to guide teaching hospitals

LENGTH: 579  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Nov. 06 -- The City District Government of Lahore has constituted
committees comprising PML-N leaders and workers for the guidance of heads of all
teaching hospitals and other health facilities in the provincial metropolis.

Committees will replace boards of managements of teaching hospitals constituted
by the Punjab health department during the previous regime and have become
non-functional after completing their tenure, it is learnt.

Quoting a CDGL notification (No DO C/1871, dated 25-10-2010), a health
department officer said: "It`s the first-ever initiative of any political party
to empower its leaders and workers to improve the public sector healthcare
system in Lahore despite the fact that the incumbents have no experience of
healthcare facilities management."

Earlier, public sector health facilities were being supervised by BoMs
comprising businessmen, academicians, retired judges and senior civil servants
besides principals of teaching hospitals and senior doctors.

A source said the Punjab health department had not re-constituted BoMs providing
an ample opportunity to the CDGL for interference in the teaching hospitals`
affairs being run by the Punjab health department.

Another purpose to form committees was to provide maximum healthcare
opportunities to party workers and voters, the source said.

The decision, however, caused unrest among heads of institutions because they
feared that health facilities might become a hub of political activities.

Mayo Hospital medical superintendent Dr Zahid Pervez told Right Vision News that
the DCO had no authority to constitute any committee to run affairs of teaching
hospitals.

He said that teaching institutions were providing healthcare to the people
through doctors and government officers posted through the Punjab health
department.

A notification issued by the district officer (coordination), on behalf of the
DCO, directed heads of all public sector health facilities in Lahore to "follow
instructions of Hospital Welfare Committees` members in letter and spirit."

According to the notification, names of the chairmen followed by vice-chairmen
of welfare committees with a hospital name in parenthesis will be: Ilyas Khan,
Haneef Butt (Mayo Hospital), Nasir Dar, Nargis Rana, Baji Bano (Lady Willingdon
Hospital), Naveed Kamal Bhatti, Attaur Rehman Siddiqui (Services Hospital),
Malik Asim Mustafa, Jamshaid Khilji (Sir Ganga Ram Hospital), Chaudhry Munir
Ahmad, Junaid Seharwardi (Punjab Institute of Cardiology), Hasnain Haider, Mst
Perveen, Rana Abdul Sattar (Children`s Hospital), Khalid Qadri advocate, Naeem
Butt (Lahore General Hospital), Waqar Siddiqui, Rukhsana Kokab (Jinnah Hospital)
, Chaudhry Boota, Zahid Iqbal (Mian Munshi Hospital), Haji Bashir Ahmad,
Muhammad Azeem Pasha (Kot Khawaja Saeed Hospital), Asghar Kokab, Khalid Bhutta
(Bilal Ganj Hospital), Ghulam Mohiuddin, Rana Ishfaq (Nawaz Sharif Hospital,
Yakki Gate), Rahat Afza, Rahat Shaukat (Lady Aitchison Hospital), Shuja Dar,
Usman Butt (Said Mitha Hospital), Hassan Din Bhatti, Sohail Aqeel (Mozang
Hospital), Zulfiqar Shah, Rana Umer Daraz (Shahdara Hospital), Sheikh Ramzan,
Abdul Shakoor (Model Town Hospital), Malik Mehmoodul Hassan, Riaz alias Raju
(Islampura Hospital), Ikram Kami, Rizwan Haider (Dental Hospital) Published by
HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


