                              480 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                              May 21, 2012 Monday

Don't play politics: NC to PDP

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, May 21 -- The National Conference today attacked the politicians who
are playing with the sentiments of the people who lost their babies in GB Pant
hospital.

The spokesman, Tanvir Sadiq, while reacting to various press conferences from
leaders of political parties said that it's shameful that they are playing
politics and trying to mantle the role of messiah when they are clearly making
the situation worse.

The NC spokesman said that the party is pained and shares the sorrow with the
families who lost their babies adding that some leaders are projecting and
attacking the government instead of trying to support Chief Minister Omar
Abdullah who is trying to overhaul the whole hospital to ensure that all the
facilities are available to the patients.

Tanvir said that keeping in view the gravity of the situation the Chief Minister
had himself stepped in and ensured that steps are taken to strengthen existing
infrastructure and equipment in the hospitals by providing required equipment,
upgrading diagnostic facilities and ensuring timely supply of medicines. "The CM
personally visited the hospital, took immediate steps and ensured that an
upright and experienced doctor heads it," said Tanvir, adding that "he met the
civil society members and agreed to all their demands to ensure all facilities
are available to the patients," he said.

Tanvir added "why are some leaders trying to take political mileage out of it."
Terming the Statement of PDP president as shameful and in utter bad taste the
spokesman said that she takes sadistic pleasure out of the miseries of the
people otherwise why instead of acting as a healthy opposition and demanding a
meeting with the authorities to know the steps taken she in a public meeting
talks about such a sensitive issue "The PDP president took sadistic pleasure out
of the incident in GB Pant hospital," adding, "how can she stoop so low and take
political advantage out of this as well!"

Meanwhile, the spokesman said that on the instruction of the Chief Minister Omar
Abdullah the Health department has already initiated the process of formulation
of Detailed Project report (DPR) for the construction of new 200-bedded
pediatric hospital at Srinagar adding that the seriousness can been seen by the
immediate identification of the land for the hospital at Dewan Bagh. Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Times.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


