                              481 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

Pakistan: Hospitals receive no election-related emergency case

LENGTH: 330  words

DATELINE: Rawalpindi


Rawalpindi, Feb. 26 -- No big emergency was reported from anywhere in the
National Assembly constituency, NA-55, or in town till 5 p.m. on the Election
Day particularly in a situation when out of 250 polling stations 49 were
declared sensitive.According to our correspondent, none of the three allied
hospitals received any extraordinary burden at their emergency departments
because of 'feared' clashes between supporters of rival candidates. However
small incidents of exchange of harsh words among supporters of different
candidates were reported at a few polling stations but it did not cause any
significant emergency.Accident & emergency departments of the allied hospitals -
Benazir Bhutto Hospital, Holy Family Hospital and District Headquarters Hospital
- remained on red alert throughout the Election Day to cope with any
extraordinary emergency.Medical Superintendent of HFH Dr Fiaz Ahmed Khan told to
media that the HFH emergency department functioned as per routine on Wednesday.

"Till now, the hospital received no big emergency in relation to the
electioneering in NA-55," he said at around 5:00 p.m.He said that the normalcy
at the emergency department hints that voters and supporters of various
candidates contesting for the National Assembly seat in NA-55 behaved in a
civilized manner."We did not receive any emergency case at the BBH that could be
termed a result of some clash between supporters of rival political groups
instead we received cases in emergency department as per routine," said Director
Emergency at BBH Dr Muhammad Mujeeb Khan while talking to media.Deputy Medical
Superintendent Emergency at DHQ Hospital Dr Irfan Khilji said that no emergency
case in result of any clash between supporters of various political parties was
reported at DHQ Hospital till closure of polling. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


