                              92 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             June 8, 1993, Tuesday

Study: Gingrich got fourth of health lobby funds $ 1.5 million given to Ga.
delegation

BYLINE: By Steve Sternberg STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 14

LENGTH: 328 words


Washington - Current members of Georgia's U.S. congressional delegation have
gotten $ 1.5 million from health-care lobbyists since 1979, and one-fourth of
that money has gone to Rep. Newt Gingrich, who took office that year, according
to a study released Monday.

The study, by the consumer group Citizen Action, found that Mr. Gingrich - who
is the House minority whip and a staunch supporter of free- market medicine -
has collected $ 433,000 from health and insurance lobbyists since 1979.

According to Citizen Action, Mr. Gingrich received $ 100,000 from health
interests last year.

"Contributions have never influenced my position on health-care reform or any
other issue," Mr. Gingrich said in a statement. "I appreciate support from
groups and individuals who think I am doing a good job representing them."

Rep. J. Roy Rowland, (D-Ga.), a Dublin doctor, collected $ 312,053, about
one-third of it from doctors, the study found.

In Georgia, lawmakers backing market-based health reforms have collected $
901,312 in donations, compared with just $ 252,472 for politicians, including
Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), who support a government- run program modeled after the
Canadian plan.

Among the biggest contributors were the American Medical Association - which
gave $ 97,441 to Mr. Gingrich and $ 55,700 to Mr. Rowland; the American Hospital
Association; a variety of medical specialty groups; and a number of insurance
companies.

Even some local groups spread money around. Although it is part of the AMA, the
Georgia Medical Association contributed an additional $ 10,300 to Mr. Gingrich;
$ 6,988 to Mr. Rowland; and $ 2,000 to Mr. Lewis.

One political action committee started by an Atlanta company, TMedical Inc.,
which has made millions by helping doctors organize home- infusion therapy
companies, contributed $ 7,000 to Mr. Gingrich; $ 5,000 to freshman Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R-Ga.); and $ 1,500 to another freshman, Rep. Don Johnson (D-Ga.).

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931680223

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


