
                               1 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             April 22, 2013 Monday

Medico-legal centres across Sindh suffer from neglect

BYLINE:  Tehmina Qureshi and M.B. Kalhoro

SECTION: Vol. LXVII No. 111

LENGTH: 648  words


While government hospitals in only three police divisions in Sindh - Karachi,
Hyderabad and Larkana - have medico-legal centres, all the three posts of
medico-legal officers are lying vacant at the Chandka Medical College and
Hospital in Larkana, which is the largest medical facility in the upper part of
Sindh, it emerged on Sunday.

In all, there are four police divisions in the province - Karachi, Hyderabad,
Sukkur and Larkana.

Hospitals in districts other than Hyderabad and Karachi make do with their
medical officers who perform medico-legal formalities and issue the required
certificates.

Even though the presence of a medico-legal centre is mandatory for a teaching
hospital, such as the case in the Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, Civil
Hospital Karachi and the Liaquat University Hospital in Hyderabad, there are no
sanctioned posts for medico-legal officers in Sukkur despite the fact that
Ghulam Mohammad Mahar College has been functioning for at least five years.

Currently there are two senior medical officers working under the additional
police surgeon of Sukkur Civil Hospital.

In urban divisions of Hyderabad and Karachi, 16 out of total 29 posts in
Hyderabad and around 20 out of a total of 71 posts in Karachi's medico-legal
section are vacant.

Unequal workload

Although there are a total of nine medico-legal centres in Karachi, only three
in major government hospitals are functioning round the clock.

Except for the medico-legal centres at the Abbasi Shaheed, the Civil and the
Jinnah hospitals, the rest of them lack adequate facilities or staff to deal
with the cases.

What is interesting is that the budget for the medico-legal department of
Hyderabad is higher than that of Karachi even though the department there has 42
less posts than Karachi and only two medico-legal centres.

"The annual budget for medico-legal department is between Rs450,000 and
Rs500,000," said Karachi Civil Surgeon Dr Aslam Pechuho while speaking to Dawn.

"When I came to office around three months ago there was not even enough money
to buy stationery. But the budget for Hyderabad is about 70 per cent higher than
that of Karachi's."

Last year, Karachi saw the highest number of targeted killings over the past two
decades. Around 2,000 people were killed on ethnic, political or sectarian
grounds.

According figures provided by the police surgeon's office, there were a total of
31,046 medico-legal cases in all centres across Karachi in 2012. The largest
number of these cases was attended at the Civil, Jinnah and Abbasi Shaheed
hospitals while the remaining centres dealt with only a smattering of them.

Out of the total cases, 12,704 were reported from the Jinnah hospital, 10,235
from the Abbasi Shaheed and 6,797 from the Civil hospital.

Around one-third of these cases, more than 10,000, were of women, hence only to
be taken care of by nine women medico-legal officers working in these three
hospitals.

Situation in upper Sindh

The Chandka Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) in Larkana is a 1,350-bed
institution catering for the needs of people from Larkana and Sukkur divisions,
as well as parts of Punjab and Balochistan.

Besides the dearth of medico-legal officers, there is also not enough space for
more than one body in the cold storage room of CMCH mortuary, said Larkana
police surgeon Saifullah Abbasi.

Besides, the post of additional police surgeon was also vacant, he added.

The district health officer of Larkana said that a number of medical officers,
including 14 female medical officers, had been deputed to work on rotation basis
in health centres and hospitals in Dokri, Ratodero and Naudero.

Meanwhile, sources told Dawn that the hospital lacked proper equipment for
performing autopsies while there were improper arrangements for sanitation,
lighting and security.

Even if autopsies were performed, there were no funds to buy jars for storing
viscera, the sources said.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2013 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Assam Tribune (India)

                            December 16, 2016 Friday

Legal aspects of hospital administration

LENGTH: 1157 words

DATELINE: Guwahati


Guwahati, Dec. 16 -- Hospitals are very complex organizations where the
beneficiaries are the patients. The providers of hospital service are still more
complex, ranging from highly skilled doctors to illiterate or just literate
people. Hospital is very peculiar organization in the sense that the output of
the organization is not the product but service which is not always possible to
be quantified, the same being difficult to measure. Hospitals are 'industries'
both in legal and professional context. As such, there is a need to examine and
analyse the legal aspects of hospital administration.

The term 'hospital administration' in the operational aspect refers to the body
of people responsible for the administration of a hospital which includes the
board of directors, director, medical superintendent and his team. Considering
the fact that hospitals are treated as industry because of its inclusion as an
industry within the meaning of the term as defined under the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947, the health care providers and also the hospital and health
administrators have to be well versed with the prevailing judicial system,
judgement delivery system and also the legal rights of the hospital and its
administrators. It is pertinent to mention that it is precisely because of
long-standing practice of the medical profession to abide by the medical ethics
not getting strength and the ethical values deteriorating among health service
providers that prompted enactment of laws to set the things in order in so far
as the service of doctors and administration in a hospital is concerned.

The prime object of the medical profession is to render service to humanity.
Here reward or financial gain is a subordinate consideration. A hospital has
scarce resources and at times it is difficult to quantify the output and
proportionate the expenses incurred on services provided to the beneficiaries in
a hospital. Also, this is a fact that with increasing information, education and
communication, the beneficiaries have become aware about the quality of service
provided and their right as a consumer of service. It is, therefore, necessary
that the hospital administration should be well versed with the provisions of
the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Many legal complications can be avoided if
all categories of staff, especially doctors, are made aware and acquainted with
the terms 'deficiency' and 'negligence' as defined under this Act. There is a
growing tendency amongst hospitals to differentiate between medico-legal and
general cases. However, in Premanand Katra vs. Union of India case (1989), the
Supreme Court held that no differentiation should be made between medico-legal
and general cases; immediate medical aid should be given to the injured patient
and that treatment should not wait in absence/delay of medico-legal formalities.
The Medical Council of India is of the opinion that there is no provision in the
law which prevents the doctor from attending to a seriously injured person and
accidental cases before the arrival of the police or registering the case and
completing other formalities.

It is also important for the hospital administration to have knowledge about the
provisions of the Law of Torts. 'Tort' refers to any wrongdoing to a person for
which a civil case can be lodged. The act of wrongful commission deliberately
doing something wrong, e.g., performing an operation without medical indication;
act of omission, i.e., doing something wrong without intention of so doing;
negligence like leaving a forceps or gauge piece inside abdomen during surgery;
invading the right to privacy; breach of professional secrecy; going beyond the
limit of patient's consent are acts which might invite legal action against the
hospital, the doctor concerned and the administration of the hospital.

It is essential that the hospital administration have sufficient knowledge about
the law of contracts which governs the contractual obligations of the doctor and
the patient after having entered into a written, verbal or implied contract for
medical advice or treatment. To avoid loss of money, reputation, time and to
avoid legal complications, it becomes necessary for the hospital administration
to keep themselves abreast of the provisions of the law of professional security
which forbids the doctors from disclosing any information about the patient,
except when required by a court of law or as a statutory duty or when necessary
in the larger public interest when it is regarded as a privileged communication.
For the small size, proprietor-owned or society-run hospitals where
administration is run solely by one or two persons who may not have enough of
administrative experience, it is suggestive that these persons must be given
sufficient exposure and knowledge about the Employees Provident Fund and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, Payment of
Gratuity Act, 1972, Minimum Wages Act, 1948, Payment of Wages Act, 1936, etc.,
since these Acts are directly connected to labour laws related to human resource
management in hospitals.

A significant factor about hospitals is that they are institutions which deal
not with machines and tools, but with human beings who have feelings and
emotions. The human beings with whom employees are brought into contact are of
four groups: management, medical staff, patients and visitors. It becomes
incumbent upon the hospital administration to note this. Legal provisions to
safeguard the interests of the patient and their bona fide visitors against all
kinds of hazards, such as unsafe procedures, medicines, equipment, buildings and
electrical fittings, etc., compel the hospital authorities to take all necessary
precautions in this regard. Hospitals under the law also require a legal
certification for running the services such as crystalloid production, blood
bank, pharmacy, radiological services, etc. The hospital administration should
be well versed with these legal provisions. In Assam, study has revealed that
for majority of hospitals, those taking up responsibilities of hospital
administration are senior doctors, and not persons holding a postgraduate or
similar degree in hospital administration. In contrast to the all-India health
institutions like the AIIMS, in Assam there is no compulsion or policy of
government where the medical superintendents or the person who heads the
administration should be doctors who have obtained a postgraduate or a doctoral
degree in hospital administration. To build up professionalism in health care
and to ensure the best service to patients, every hospital in Assam, both in
private and public sectors, must have persons who have good knowledge about
hospital administration.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Assam Tribune. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Assam Tribune (P) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            February 2, 2014 Sunday

Six more Karachi hospitals to get MLOs in two weeks

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 391

LENGTH: 568  words


Six government-run hospitals of Karachi urgently need the services of Medico-
legal Officers (MLO) to handle the emergency and terrorism-related cases and
also to lessen the extra burden on three major government hospitals of the city.

According the official sources, three major hospitals of city having the
facility of Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) are Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH),
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC) and Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK),
while six other government hospitals lack this facility so far.

Due to prevailing law and order situation in Karachi, there is a dire need
posting MLOs in these hospitals to handle the emergency cases.

The sources said the MLO report, containing the cause of death, time of death,
nature of death, and other details compiled on an official form at the time of
autopsy, provides the basis for a court case, carrying an impact on the trial
and final decision.

They said MLOs could provide important information in handling autopsy of
terrorism-related cases, including the cases of bombing and targeted killings.

However, these important vaccines are laying vacant in some government hospitals
. The medico-legal department is not functional in six important hospitals of
Karachi including Sindh Government Lyari General Hospital, Sindh Government
Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government
Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town and Sindh
Government Hospital Karachi Korangi due to different reasons.

The non-functioning of medic-legal departments in these government runs
hospitals of city is putting the extra burden on the three big hospitals of
metropolis. According to the sources five MLO are deployed in JPMC, while two
seats are laying vacant there; two MLOs are working in CHK, where three posts
are laying vacant and three MLOs are discharging duties in ASH, where two
vaccines lay vacant.

According to a Health Department report around 3500 post-mortems are carried out
in the city every year, while in 30,000 other cases medico-legal certificates
are issued by the MLOs annually. Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) leader Dr SM
Qaisar Sajjad, when contacted, said that medico-legal department is an important
department of hospitals and government should deploy at least one MLO in each
town hospital. He said population of Karachi has crossed 20 million mark, but
unfortunately the healthcare facilities are yet to be up-graded accordingly.

He said health and education sectors are not on the priority of sitting
government as both sectors are in dilapidated condition. He urged the
authorities concerned to provide maximum healthcare facilities to public and
immediately appoints the MLOs in all government hospitals.

It may be noted that Secretary Health Sindh during meeting with group of media
men at his office recently has said that a plan is under way for appointment of
Medico-Legal Officers (MLO) in more hospitals to minimize the burden on three
major hospitals of Karachi; however, no action is taken in this as yet.
Secretary Health Sindh Iqbal Hussain Durrani, when contacted said deployment of
MLOs in six hospitals of Karachi would be done within two weeks.

He explained that there are a few requirements need to be fulfilled before the
deployment MLOs in hospitals. He hoped that medico-legal departments of these
remaining hospitals would start functioning within two weeks.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Financial Post (Pakistan)

                            February 2, 2014 Sunday

Six more Karachi hospitals to get MLOs in two weeks

LENGTH: 606 words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Feb. 2 -- Six government-run hospitals of Karachi urgently need the
services of Medico-legal Officers (MLO) to handle the emergency and
terrorism-related cases and also to lessen the extra burden on three major
government hospitals of the city.

According the official sources, three major hospitals of city having the
facility of Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) are Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH),
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC) and Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK),
while six other government hospitals lack this facility so far. Due to
prevailing law and order situation in Karachi, there is a dire need posting MLOs
in these hospitals to handle the emergency cases.

The sources said the MLO report, containing the cause of death, time of death,
nature of death, and other details compiled on an official form at the time of
autopsy, provides the basis for a court case, carrying an impact on the trial
and final decision.

They said MLOs could provide important information in handling autopsy of
terrorism-related cases, including the cases of bombing and targeted killings.
However, these important vaccines are laying vacant in some government hospitals
. The medico-legal department is not functional in six important hospitals of
Karachi including Sindh Government Lyari General Hospital, Sindh Government
Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government
Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town and Sindh
Government Hospital Karachi Korangi due to different reasons.

The non-functioning of medic-legal departments in these government runs
hospitals of city is putting the extra burden on the three big hospitals of
metropolis. According to the sources five MLO are deployed in JPMC, while two
seats are laying vacant there; two MLOs are working in CHK, where three posts
are laying vacant and three MLOs are discharging duties in ASH, where two
vaccines lay vacant. According to a Health Department report around 3500
post-mortems are carried out in the city every year, while in 30,000 other cases
medico-legal certificates are issued by the MLOs annually.

Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) leader Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad, when contacted,
said that medico-legal department is an important department of hospitals and
government should deploy at least one MLO in each town hospital. He said
population of Karachi has crossed 20 million mark, but unfortunately the
healthcare facilities are yet to be up-graded accordingly. He said health and
education sectors are not on the priority of sitting government as both sectors
are in dilapidated condition. He urged the authorities concerned to provide
maximum healthcare facilities to public and immediately appoints the MLOs in all
government hospitals.

It may be noted that Secretary Health Sindh during meeting with group of media
men at his office recently has said that a plan is under way for appointment of
Medico-Legal Officers (MLO) in more hospitals to minimize the burden on three
major hospitals of Karachi; however, no action is taken in this as yet.

Secretary Health Sindh Iqbal Hussain Durrani, when contacted said deployment of
MLOs in six hospitals of Karachi would be done within two weeks. He explained
that there are a few requirements need to be fulfilled before the deployment
MLOs in hospitals. He hoped that medico-legal departments of these remaining
hospitals would start functioning within two weeks.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Post. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Daily Financial Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday

22 seats of MLOs lying vacant in Karachi

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 444

LENGTH: 332  words


Around 22 posts of Medico- Legal Officers (MLOs) are lying vacant in different
government runs hospitals of Karachi from last two years adversely affecting
medico-legal department functioning at healthcares. This was informed by Police
Surgeon Karachi Dr Jalil Qadir while talking to the media men at his office. He
said about 22 seats MLOs of grade-17 are lying vacant in different teaching and
small hospitals of Karachi from last two years over variety of reasons. He
explained that pressure from heirs and harassment on MLOs by some politically
backed groups at government-run hospitals during duty are major factor behind
reluctance of doctors to join medico-legal department.

He said these vacant seats are hindering different government hospital
administrations to make properly functional their medico-legal departments. He
informed that medico-legal departments have been established in nine
government-run hospitals of Karachi to handle terrorism-related and emergency
cases, out of them only three major hospitals are handling such cases, while tow
-level hospitals are still not ready to conduct postmortems despite having such
facility due to security risk or shortage of trained staff. Dr Jalil Qadir said
there are five seats allocated for each hospital for medico-legal department
including one post for grade-19, two seats of grade-18 and three seats reserved
for grade-17 officers.

He said medico-legal department was established in nine hospitals including
Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH), Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center (JPMC), Civil
Hospital Karachi (CHK), Sindh Government Hospital Qatar Orangi Town and other
hospitals. He said 22 MLOs posts of grade-17 have been lying vacant fort last
two years in Karachi including four women MLOs seats adversely affecting medico-
legal department functioning. He informed that provincial government had posted
some doctors on MLOs seats to meet the shortage but majority of doctors did not
join the duties over security risk or fear.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday

MLO offices closed in four district hospitals

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 249

LENGTH: 283  words


The offices of Medico Legal Departments in four districts hospitals of Karachi
have been closed due to shortage of medico-legal officers, it was learned on
Tuesday.

The offices of medico-legal department in Sindh Government Lyari General
Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital
Liaquatabad, and Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad have been closed owing to
unavailability of MLOs, while only one MLO is available at Sindh Government
Hospital Qatar Orangi Town and Sindh Government Hospital Karachi Korangi in day
hours.

An official at health department Sindh told that Medico-Legal Department of
Karachi was facing acute shortage of male and female medico-legal officers since
last several months; therefore, the department has closed four offices in
district level hospitals, while two other offices were on the verge of closure.

He informed that three major hospitals of the city had the facility of Medico-
legal Officers (MLOs) like Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH), Jinnah Postgraduate
Medical Center (JPMC) and Civil Hospital Karachi, while six other hospitals' MLO
offices had been shutdown due to the shortage of MLOs.

He said MLO report show the cause of death, time of death, nature of death, and
other details compiled on an official form at the time of autopsy, provides the
basis for a court case, carrying an impact on the trial and final decision.

He further said MLOs could provide important information in handling autopsy of
terrorism-related cases, including the cases of bombing and targeted killings.
However, several posts are lying vacant in medico-legal department of Karachi.

Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz Ahmed Khokhar was not available for comments.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

8,372 medico-legal, postmortem cases reported in 2016

SECTION: Vol. 10 No. 32

LENGTH: 309  words


The Medico Legal Department of Karachi has issued an annual report on medico-
legal and postmortem examination cases conducted in 2016. The annual report,
issued by Police Surgeon Karachi, stated that 8,372 people were reported in
three major medico-legal sections of Karachi, including Jinnah Postgraduate
Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital, while six
small medico-legal sections are Sindh Government Lyari General Hospital, Sindh
Government Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh
Government Qatar Hospital Orangi, Sindh Government Hospital Korangi and Sindh
Government Hospital New Karachi As many as 8,372 medico-legal  and  postmortem
examination cases were registered in the city in 2016 out of which 6,578 were
medico-legal and 1,794 postmortems. In Karachi, out of the 6,578 medico-legal
cases, 3,170 were hard  and  blunt assault, 191 sharp-edge, 411 fire arm, 101
explosive, two human bite, seven maltreatment and 113 dead bodies during the
year. Around 793 road accidents, four railway accidents, 483 burn incidents, 39
factory accidents and 271 dead bodies were reported in ML Sections in 2016.
Eighty-nine sexual assault active (rape) and 190 passive cases were reported
previous years.

Sixteen (active) sodomy and 24 passive cases were also reported. Intoxication
cases: As many as 382 poison, 97 alcohol, 16 drugs and 37 miscellaneous cases
were reported during the year. The report further stated that a total of 1,794
postmortem examinations were also carried out in 2016 out of which 46 were hard
and  blunt assault, 62 sharp-edge, 675 fire arms, 39 explosive and 77 asphyxia.
Around 558 road accident, 66 railway accidents, 32 burns, 50 fall, 29 drowning,
20 electric shocks, nine custodial death, 24 exhumation, seven passion and 46
miscellaneous cases were examined last year.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Stanhope prepared for a fight;
Calvary legal threat

BYLINE: Bianca Hall and Peter Jean

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553  words


Stanhope prepared for a fight Calvary legal threat By Bianca Hall and Peter Jean
DISAPPOINTED: Jon Stanhope has responded to the threat to sue the ACT
Government.

Editorial Page 18 The ACT Government refused to be cowed by the threat of legal
action by the owners of Calvary Public Hospital, Chief Minister Jon Stanhope
said yesterday.

"I am deeply disappointed with the language used by Calvary, that they've
threatened to sue us," he said.

"The consequences would be awful. We won't be cowed by threats."

Cabinet is due to decide this week where to locate an additional 400 public
hospital beds as part of its long-term plans to expand the territory's hospital
services.

But its task has been complicated by Little Company of Mary Health Care, which
owns the Bruce hospital, indicating it could pursue legal action if the
Government alters its status as north Canberra's primary provider of acute
public health services.

The Government has examined a range of options for expanding health services,
including building a new acute hospital and turning Calvary Public Hospital into
a sub- acute facility, specialising in areas such as rehabilitation and psycho-
geriatric care.

Another option is to expand Calvary's acute services and build a new sub-acute
hospital.

Yesterday, LCM Health Care chairman John Watkins continued to deny the
organisation had threatened to sue if the Government pursued plans for a new
hospital.

Mr Watkins said both parties should respect the agreement under which Calvary
ran acute care health services.

"There's a legal agreement in place between the parties. My view is that of
course both the parties should respect that legal agreement as we always have
and we intend to," he said.

"Governments don't breach agreements like that in a cavalier fashion and I would
not expect that of the minister or the Government of the ACT."

Despite Mr Watkins' public denials of threatened legal action, Mr Stanhope said
he was "deeply disappointed" with the organisation's stance. "The last thing
that we want is to be involved in a legal fight," the Chief Minister said.

"If we were involved in a legal stoush we wouldn't be able to invest in our
health needs ... The consequences would be awful.

"We won't be cowed by threats but we will, as we always do, put the public
interests first."

This, he said, meant building a new acute or sub-acute hospital facility to care
for the territory's burgeoning health needs.

"Facing an ageing and growing population, we will need to construct a new
facility."

Calvary's submission to the Government on expanding hospital services in the ACT
maintained the hospital had a legally binding contract, under which it operates
acute- care services in north Canberra.

"There may be legal impediments to the Government's preferred position our
agreement to provide public health services on behalf of the ACT Government is a
legally binding contract that confirms our role as provider of acute public
health services," the submission said.

"It is likely that there are contractual obligations that are at odds with the
Government's consideration of changing Calvary's role."

Mr Watkins said the best outcome would be for Calvary to continue delivering the
services it provided.

"If that means a compromise position is reached, well I think that's the best
outcome for Canberra," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Stanhope prepared for a fight;
Calvary legal threat

BYLINE: Bianca Hall and Peter Jean

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553  words


Stanhope prepared for a fight Calvary legal threat By Bianca Hall and Peter Jean
DISAPPOINTED: Jon Stanhope has responded to the threat to sue the ACT
Government.

Editorial Page 18 The ACT Government refused to be cowed by the threat of legal
action by the owners of Calvary Public Hospital, Chief Minister Jon Stanhope
said yesterday.

"I am deeply disappointed with the language used by Calvary, that they've
threatened to sue us," he said.

"The consequences would be awful. We won't be cowed by threats."

Cabinet is due to decide this week where to locate an additional 400 public
hospital beds as part of its long-term plans to expand the territory's hospital
services.

But its task has been complicated by Little Company of Mary Health Care, which
owns the Bruce hospital, indicating it could pursue legal action if the
Government alters its status as north Canberra's primary provider of acute
public health services.

The Government has examined a range of options for expanding health services,
including building a new acute hospital and turning Calvary Public Hospital into
a sub- acute facility, specialising in areas such as rehabilitation and psycho-
geriatric care.

Another option is to expand Calvary's acute services and build a new sub-acute
hospital.

Yesterday, LCM Health Care chairman John Watkins continued to deny the
organisation had threatened to sue if the Government pursued plans for a new
hospital.

Mr Watkins said both parties should respect the agreement under which Calvary
ran acute care health services.

"There's a legal agreement in place between the parties. My view is that of
course both the parties should respect that legal agreement as we always have
and we intend to," he said.

"Governments don't breach agreements like that in a cavalier fashion and I would
not expect that of the minister or the Government of the ACT."

Despite Mr Watkins' public denials of threatened legal action, Mr Stanhope said
he was "deeply disappointed" with the organisation's stance. "The last thing
that we want is to be involved in a legal fight," the Chief Minister said.

"If we were involved in a legal stoush we wouldn't be able to invest in our
health needs ... The consequences would be awful.

"We won't be cowed by threats but we will, as we always do, put the public
interests first."

This, he said, meant building a new acute or sub-acute hospital facility to care
for the territory's burgeoning health needs.

"Facing an ageing and growing population, we will need to construct a new
facility."

Calvary's submission to the Government on expanding hospital services in the ACT
maintained the hospital had a legally binding contract, under which it operates
acute- care services in north Canberra.

"There may be legal impediments to the Government's preferred position our
agreement to provide public health services on behalf of the ACT Government is a
legally binding contract that confirms our role as provider of acute public
health services," the submission said.

"It is likely that there are contractual obligations that are at odds with the
Government's consideration of changing Calvary's role."

Mr Watkins said the best outcome would be for Calvary to continue delivering the
services it provided.

"If that means a compromise position is reached, well I think that's the best
outcome for Canberra," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Stanhope prepared for a fight;
Calvary legal threat

BYLINE: Bianca Hall and Peter Jean

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553  words


Stanhope prepared for a fight Calvary legal threat By Bianca Hall and Peter Jean
DISAPPOINTED: Jon Stanhope has responded to the threat to sue the ACT
Government.

Editorial Page 18 The ACT Government refused to be cowed by the threat of legal
action by the owners of Calvary Public Hospital, Chief Minister Jon Stanhope
said yesterday.

"I am deeply disappointed with the language used by Calvary, that they've
threatened to sue us," he said.

"The consequences would be awful. We won't be cowed by threats."

Cabinet is due to decide this week where to locate an additional 400 public
hospital beds as part of its long-term plans to expand the territory's hospital
services.

But its task has been complicated by Little Company of Mary Health Care, which
owns the Bruce hospital, indicating it could pursue legal action if the
Government alters its status as north Canberra's primary provider of acute
public health services.

The Government has examined a range of options for expanding health services,
including building a new acute hospital and turning Calvary Public Hospital into
a sub- acute facility, specialising in areas such as rehabilitation and psycho-
geriatric care.

Another option is to expand Calvary's acute services and build a new sub-acute
hospital.

Yesterday, LCM Health Care chairman John Watkins continued to deny the
organisation had threatened to sue if the Government pursued plans for a new
hospital.

Mr Watkins said both parties should respect the agreement under which Calvary
ran acute care health services.

"There's a legal agreement in place between the parties. My view is that of
course both the parties should respect that legal agreement as we always have
and we intend to," he said.

"Governments don't breach agreements like that in a cavalier fashion and I would
not expect that of the minister or the Government of the ACT."

Despite Mr Watkins' public denials of threatened legal action, Mr Stanhope said
he was "deeply disappointed" with the organisation's stance. "The last thing
that we want is to be involved in a legal fight," the Chief Minister said.

"If we were involved in a legal stoush we wouldn't be able to invest in our
health needs ... The consequences would be awful.

"We won't be cowed by threats but we will, as we always do, put the public
interests first."

This, he said, meant building a new acute or sub-acute hospital facility to care
for the territory's burgeoning health needs.

"Facing an ageing and growing population, we will need to construct a new
facility."

Calvary's submission to the Government on expanding hospital services in the ACT
maintained the hospital had a legally binding contract, under which it operates
acute- care services in north Canberra.

"There may be legal impediments to the Government's preferred position our
agreement to provide public health services on behalf of the ACT Government is a
legally binding contract that confirms our role as provider of acute public
health services," the submission said.

"It is likely that there are contractual obligations that are at odds with the
Government's consideration of changing Calvary's role."

Mr Watkins said the best outcome would be for Calvary to continue delivering the
services it provided.

"If that means a compromise position is reached, well I think that's the best
outcome for Canberra," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Shortage of MLOs create problems in hospitals

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 387

LENGTH: 523  words


Six government-run hospitals of Karachi urgently need the services of Medico-
legal Officers (MLO) to handle the emergency and terrorism-related cases and
also to minimize the extra burden on three major government hospitals of the
city. According the official sources, three major hospitals of city having the
facility of Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) are Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH),
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center (JPMC) and Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK),
while six other government hospitals lack this facility so far. Due to
prevailing law and order situation in Karachi, there is a dire need posting MLOs
in these hospitals to handle the emergency cases.

The sources said the MLO report, containing the cause of death, time of death,
nature of death, and other details compiled on an official form at the time of
autopsy, provides the basis for a court case, carrying an impact on the trial
and final decision. They said MLOs could provide important information in
handling autopsy of terrorism-related cases, including the cases of bombing and
targeted killings.

However, these important vaccines are laying vacant in some government hospitals
. The medico-legal department is not functional in six important hospitals of
Karachi including Sindh Government Lyari General Hospital, Sindh Government
Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government
Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town and Sindh
Government Hospital Karachi Korangi due to different reasons. The
non-functioning of medic-legal departments in these government runs hospitals of
city is putting the extra burden on the three big hospitals of metropolis.

According to the sources five MLO are deployed in JPMC, while two seats are
laying vacant there; two MLOs are working in CHK, where three posts are laying
vacant and three MLOs are discharging duties in ASH, where two vaccines lay
vacant. According to a Health Department report around 3500 post-mortems are
carried out in the city every year, while in 30,000 other cases medico-legal
certificates are issued by the MLOs annually. Pakistan Medical Association (PMA)
leader Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad, when contacted, said that medico-legal department is
an important department of hospitals and government should deploy at least one
MLO in each town hospital.

He said population of Karachi has crossed 20 million mark, but unfortunately the
healthcare facilities are yet to be up-graded accordingly. He said health and
education sectors are not on the priority of sitting government as both sectors
are in dilapidated condition. He urged the authorities concerned to provide
maximum healthcare facilities to public and immediately appoints the MLOs in all
government hospitals.

It may be noted that Secretary Health Sindh during meeting with group of media
men at his office recently has said that a plan is under way for appointment of
Medico-Legal Officers (MLO) in more hospitals to minimize the burden on three
major hospitals of Karachi; however, no action is taken in this as yet.
Secretary Health Sindh was not available for comment despite repeated phone
calls.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday

70% postmortems at YCMH on accident victims

SECTION: PUNE

LENGTH: 782 words


PUNE: Of the 16,000 postmortems conducted by the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial
Hospital (YCMH), run by Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), in the
last 13 years, 70 per cent were on those who died in accidents.

R R Iyer, medical director, PCMC said, "The postmortem centre in YCMH is known
as the second largest forensic medicine unit after Sassoon General Hospital in
Pune."

Iyer said, "YCM hospital, a 650-bed hospital, was opened on March 17, 1989.
Deaths in accidents require police investigation and since two national highways
pass through the PCMC limits, such cases are brought to YCM hospital. In fatal
accidents, postmortem is done to ascertain the cause and time of death, while in
some cases postmortem is done to find evidence".

Iyer said before the postmortem centre at YCM hospital was opened, bodies were
sent for medico legal examination to Sassoon Hospital in Pune, which is 16 km
away from Pimpri.

To save time, money and inconvenience to relatives of the dead, PCMC, in 1993,
sought the state government permission to examine medico legal cases and conduct
postmortems at YCM hospital. The postmortem centre here was opened on January 1,
1997.

"In the first year itself, 462 medico legal postmortems were done. Over the
years, this figure increased and crossed the 1,000 mark in 2002 when 1,040
postmortems were conducted. From 2007 onwards, the number of postmortems
conducted in a year has been around 1,700. The highest number of postmortems --
1,789 -- were conducted in 2008. This year, 1,550 postmortems have been done so
far", Iyer said.

Meanwhile YCM hospital has organised a symposium on Legal aspects of medical
practise' at Autocluster, Chinchwad, at 10 am, on November 27. Discussions will
be held about medico legal cases, legal provisions, analyses in relation to
insurance, medical records required for judicial purposes, human rights issues
and others. Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor Yogesh Behl will inaugurate the symposium to
be attended by 130 doctors.

Postmortems at YCMH in the last 13 years

* Accidents (road, railway and others): 70 %

* Suicide: 5 %

* Homicide (mechanical, firearms, strangling, throttling): 10 %

* Natural and others: 15 %

Eom/siddharth gaikwad/md

----------------------------

PAGE 7

cleared/md

story: 70 pc of 16000 post-mortems at YCM were of accident victims

Times News Network

Pune: The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) run Yashwantrao Chavan
memorial (YCM) hospital has conducted 16,000 post-mortems of medico legal cases
in the past 13 years, out of which 70 percent were accident victims.

R R Iyer, medical director, PCMC said, "The post-mortem centre in YCM hospital
is known as the second largest forensic medicine unit after Sassoon hospital in
Pune."

Iyer said, "YCM hospital, a 650 bed hospital, was started on March 17, 1989.
Deaths in accidents require investigation by police and since two national
highways pass through PCMC limits, such cases are brought to YCM hospital. In
fatal accidents post-mortem is done to ascertain the cause and time of death,
while in some cases post-mortem is done to find evidence".

He added that prior to opening of the post-mortem centre at YCM hospital, the
victims were sent for medico legal examination to the Sassoon hospital in Pune
which is 16 kilometers away from Pimpri. To save time, money and inconvenice to
victims and relatives PCMC sought permission from the state government to
examine medico legal cases and conduct post-mortems at YCM hospital in 1993. The
post-mortem centre started functioning at the YCM hospital from January 1, 1997.

"In the first year itself, 462 medico legal post-mortems were done in 1997. This
figure increased over the years and crossed the 1,000 mark in 2002 when 1,040
post-mortems were conducted. From 2007 onwards the number of post-mortems
conducted annually is in the range of 1700. The highest number of post-mortems -
1789 - were done in 2008. During the current year 1,550 post-mortems have been
done so far", Iyer said.

Meanwhile YCM hospital has organised a symposium on Legal aspects of medical
practise' at Autocluster, Chinchwad on November 27 at 10 am. Discussions will be
held about medico legal cases, analysis of these cases, legal provisions,
analysis from the point of insurance, medical records required for judicial
purposes, human rights issues and others. Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor Yogesh Behl
will inaugurate the symposium to be attended by 130 doctors.

Box: Post-mortems at YCM hospital in past 13 years

Accidents (road, railway and others): 70 %

Suicide (hanging, burns, poisoning): 5 %

Homicide (mechanical, firearms, strangling, throttling): 10 %

Natural and others: 15 %

Eom/siddharth gaikwad/md

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              July 24, 2016 Sunday

Karachi Police Surgeon's post vacant for three months

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 204

LENGTH: 350  words


The Health Department Government of Sindh has failed to fill the vacant post of
Karachi Police Surgeon despite the passage three months, creating hindrance in
legal procedure and obtaining certificates in high-profile cases, it was learned
on Saturday. Reliable sources at Medico-Legal Department told that the post of
Police Surgeon Karachi has been lying vacant for last three months and
provincial health department authorities have failed to finalize the name of
official for this important post. They said police surgeon post is lying vacant
since 15th April 2016 after retirement of Dr Aftab Qureshi.

They said police surgeon is considered one of major post in medic-legal
department but due to non-serious attitude of high-ups of health department the
post is lying vacant. All administrative and official works in medico-legal
departments of three major and six other hospitals have badly affected due to
delay in appointment police surgeon Karachi on vacant post. Sources said this
important post is being run on temporary basis since 2015 and high ups of health
department Sindh has miserably failed to finalize the name of official in
grade-20 for this important post. Another official said health government Sindh
has decided to appoint Medical Superintendent of Shikarpur Hospital Dr Imtiaz
Ahmed Jokhio, an officer on grade-19, on Karachi Police Surgeon post. Dr Jokhio
has promoted from grade-18 to grade-19 in recent past and he has no experience
about Medico-Legal Department. Sources said there are three major hospitals of
city having the facility of Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) like Abbasi Shaheed
Hospital, Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center( JPMC) and Civil Hospital (CHK),
while medico-legal department in six other hospitals like Lyari General
Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital
Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Qatar Hospital
Orangi Town and Sindh Government Hospital Korangi are partially non-functional
due to shortage of MLOs. Secretary Health Sindh, Ahmed Baksh Narejo, was not
available for comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

City faces shortage of female MLOs

SECTION: Vol. 15 No. 145

LENGTH: 762  words


Karachi, Pakistan's most populous city and amongst 'violent' cities for women,
is facing severe shortage of female medico-legal officers.

According to Sheraz Ahmed, Program Officer War Against Rape (WAR) Karachi, in
the number of gender-based violence in Karachi during April 2016 to April 2017,
there were 346 survivals cases which were reported in city's three hospitals
Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbassi Shaheed
Hospital.

"These figures were noted by our desk during timings of from 10 am to 2 pm. So
obviously there would be more cases," Sheraz added.

Similarly in our findings, WAR has come to know that 340 to 360 cases of sexual
violence including rape, gang rape and sodomy have been reported during last ten
years in these major hospitals of Karachi.

However to deal this situation, there are only 5 female medico-legal officers in
Karachi.

"Out of five, 3 are on duty and 2 are on medical leave. So technically there are
only three female medico-legal officers working at city's main public healthcare
centers Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK)
and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital to deal the situation," said Dr Ejaz Khokhar,
Karachi Police Surgeon.

Other centers including Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town, Lyari
General Hospital, and Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad have no female
medico-legal officers at all except for Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad where
a grade-19 of Additional Police Surgeon is working. Besides that one of the
city's hospitals has female medico-legal officer at night duty.

Duty timings of female medico-legal officers at CHK and Abbasi Shaheed are
morning and evening. In case if situation arises of emergency, we 'request'
Additional Police Surgeon Saudabad to work for us on 'complimentary grounds.' On
request, she is available at Abbasi or for Civil at night depending upon the
requirement.

At present there are two female medico-legal officers working at CHK, whereas
there is only one female medico-legal officer at JPMC. At Abbasi Shaheed
Hospital the duty is performed by additional police surgeon as there is no
female medico-legal officer appointed. But since JPMC mortuary is
under-construction, therefore if creates problems for people.

A medicolegal officer can be a coroner or medical examiner. In either case, the
medicolegal officer is responsible for leading an investigation to determine the
circumstances under which someone died. Medicolegal is something that involves
both medical and legal aspects.

Karachi, a city with estimated population of 20 million is prone to terrorism,
sectarian violence and women related violence for long. Known as the "City of
Lights", Karachi's law and order situation had been a nuisance for citizens for
far too long. City is also prone to terrorism and sectarian violence and
motorbike riding assassins "target killings", honor killings and domestic
violence.

In January this year, Citizens-Police Liaison Committee identified 60 places in
the sprawling metropolis where incidents of street crimes, particularly
snatching of mobile phones, have increased alarmingly, it emerged on Sunday.

Ejaz Khokhar, Karachi Police Surgeon said, there are 4 vacant seats of female
MLOs for last two years or so. There was no hiring of female medico-legal
officers since 2014 when one female medico-legal officer was appointed.
Similarly the last female medico-legal officer retired in June 2016. There was a
commission exam held around one year ago but that too is in pending. Through
that exam 25 new medico-legal officers were supposed to be appointed. However
Commissions work could not move forward due to some dispute and it went to
courts.

Dr Khokhar explains that the total working strength of female medico-legal
officers in Karachi is 32.

As per rules, every government hospital should have additional police surgeon of
grade-19, two senior female medico-legal officers of grade-18 and three female
medico-legal officers of grade-17.

According to existing formulae, total sanction strength of medico-legal officers
in Karachi should be 71 out of which 9 seats belong to female MLOs. Even if this
sanction strength is fulfilled even then we can not give 24-hours service to all
centers.

"Existing sanction strength is quarter a century old and that strength was kept
with that population and crime rate. Time has changed. The number of the medico-
legal officers should be enhanced keeping the current population and crime rate.
Government should sanction new posts of female medico-legal officers," Dr
Khokhar added.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

City faces shortage of female MLOs

LENGTH: 800  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, May 25 -- Karachi, Pakistan's most populous city and amongst 'violent'
cities for women, is facing severe shortage of female medico-legal officers.

According to Sheraz Ahmed, Program Officer War Against Rape (WAR) Karachi, in
the number of gender-based violence in Karachi during April 2016 to April 2017,
there were 346 survivals cases which were reported in city's three hospitals
Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbassi Shaheed
Hospital.

"These figures were noted by our desk during timings of from 10 am to 2 pm. So
obviously there would be more cases," Sheraz added.

Similarly in our findings, WAR has come to know that 340 to 360 cases of sexual
violence including rape, gang rape and sodomy have been reported during last ten
years in these major hospitals of Karachi.

However to deal this situation, there are only 5 female medico-legal officers in
Karachi.

"Out of five, 3 are on duty and 2 are on medical leave. So technically there are
only three female medico-legal officers working at city's main public healthcare
centers Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK)
and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital to deal the situation," said Dr Ejaz Khokhar,
Karachi Police Surgeon.

Other centers including Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town, Lyari
General Hospital, and Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad have no female
medico-legal officers at all except for Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad where
a grade-19 of Additional Police Surgeon is working. Besides that one of the
city's hospitals has female medico-legal officer at night duty.

Duty timings of female medico-legal officers at CHK and Abbasi Shaheed are
morning and evening. In case if situation arises of emergency, we 'request'
Additional Police Surgeon Saudabad to work for us on 'complimentary grounds.' On
request, she is available at Abbasi or for Civil at night depending upon the
requirement.

At present there are two female medico-legal officers working at CHK, whereas
there is only one female medico-legal officer at JPMC. At Abbasi Shaheed
Hospital the duty is performed by additional police surgeon as there is no
female medico-legal officer appointed. But since JPMC mortuary is
under-construction, therefore if creates problems for people.

A medicolegal officer can be a coroner or medical examiner. In either case, the
medicolegal officer is responsible for leading an investigation to determine the
circumstances under which someone died. Medicolegal is something that involves
both medical and legal aspects.

Karachi, a city with estimated population of 20 million is prone to terrorism,
sectarian violence and women related violence for long. Known as the "City of
Lights", Karachi's law and order situation had been a nuisance for citizens for
far too long. City is also prone to terrorism and sectarian violence and
motorbike riding assassins "target killings", honor killings and domestic
violence.

In January this year, Citizens-Police Liaison Committee identified 60 places in
the sprawling metropolis where incidents of street crimes, particularly
snatching of mobile phones, have increased alarmingly, it emerged on Sunday.

Ejaz Khokhar, Karachi Police Surgeon said, there are 4 vacant seats of female
MLOs for last two years or so. There was no hiring of female medico-legal
officers since 2014 when one female medico-legal officer was appointed.
Similarly the last female medico-legal officer retired in June 2016. There was a
commission exam held around one year ago but that too is in pending. Through
that exam 25 new medico-legal officers were supposed to be appointed. However
Commissions work could not move forward due to some dispute and it went to
courts.

Dr Khokhar explains that the total working strength of female medico-legal
officers in Karachi is 32.

As per rules, every government hospital should have additional police surgeon of
grade-19, two senior female medico-legal officers of grade-18 and three female
medico-legal officers of grade-17.

According to existing formulae, total sanction strength of medico-legal officers
in Karachi should be 71 out of which 9 seats belong to female MLOs. Even if this
sanction strength is fulfilled even then we can not give 24-hours service to all
centers.

"Existing sanction strength is quarter a century old and that strength was kept
with that population and crime rate. Time has changed. The number of the medico-
legal officers should be enhanced keeping the current population and crime rate.
Government should sanction new posts of female medico-legal officers," Dr
Khokhar added.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Daily Times. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

Shaping the future of Legal Medicine in India by creating Centre of Excellence;

Core India Institute of Legal Medicine, Pune, Maharashtra

LENGTH: 417  words


Core India Institute of Legal Medicine, Pune, Maharashtra

Brief about Core India Institute of Legal Medicine, Pune

It gives us pleasure to introduce, Core India Institute of Legal Medicine, the
organization in the medico legal field. In addition to medico legal consultancy,
it will contribute to the field of legal medicine of India by organizing a
number of academic programs and publications for doctors, advocates and hospital
employees.

The modus operendi of the CIILM is as follows

     ·    Medico legal consultancy - Professionally helping the doctors,
          hospitals and advocates in court proceedings, Pleading and
          representing doctors and hospitals in the Courts.
     ·    Medico legal skills development - various academic programs and
          courses for doctors and advocates, also for judges
     ·    Mediation, Conciliation and Arbitration - Though India does not have
          this system at present, it is best alternative to resolve disputes and
          it should be offered to all medico legal disputes as first solution.
     ·    Crisis Prevention and Intervention - Mainly training hospital
          employees with the techniques of prevention and intervention of crisis
          in the hospitals. Organizing programs and courses.
     ·    Risk management - Offering insurance based solutions to the doctors
          and hospitals for dealing with medico legal risks.


"Doctor Patient Synergy: A way towards medical legal partnership for patient
safety"

The Core India Institute of Legal Medicine is organizing a medico legal
conference for doctors, advocates, medical and law students with the above theme
on 26th 27th March 2016. The associate for the conference is the Indian Medical
Association, Pune Branch. Eminent speakers for this conference include Senior
members from Judiciary, Senior Police officials, Senior medical professionals
and advocates, Media Experts and Actors. The venue will be Smt.Shakuntala Shetty
Auditorium, Kannada Sangha, Erandavana, Pune.

Schedule of Program

     ·    Session 1 Violence Against Hospitals and Medical Professionals
     ·    Session 2 Release of IMA Medico legal Diary
     ·    Session 3 Evolution of Law governing Medical Negligence
     ·    Session 4 Dispute Resolut ion in Healthcare Role of Mediation,
          Conciliation and Arbitration
     ·    Session 5 Healthcare Risk Management
     ·    Session 6 Social Aspects of Doctor Patient Relationship Felicitations
          and speeches


Contact for Participation

Conference Secretariat,

Indian Medical Association,

Dr.Nitu Mandke Building,

Tilak Road, Pune

Tel: 020 - 24464771/ 24430042

Email: info@ciilm.com (mailto:info@ciilm.com) / imaofpune@gmail.com
(mailto:imaofpune@gmail.com)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Lawyers in hospitals to aid women;
Family violence - Medical staff get cultural training

BYLINE: Jane Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 513 words


Laywers are working with doctors, nurses and midwives in hospitals to advise
victims of family violence.

InTouch, the Multicultural Centre Against Family Violence, will start to work
with Dandenong Hospital this week to train hospital staff to identify and
respond to the clinical signs of family violence in women.

Staff will also be briefed on legal redresses for victims, including
intervention orders, and social welfare services. The centre will also deliver
cultural training to help clinicians understand their patients' experiences of
family violence.

About 52 per cent of Dandenong's population was born overseas in non-English
speaking countries, and migration and resettlement in difficult circumstances
could provide a trigger for family violence, Maya Avdibegovic, the centre's
chief executive, said.

"You have a reversal of [gender roles] ... women feel quite empowered to retrain
and work, while men feel more vulnerable," she said. Men could also feel "left
behind" if they were unable to continue the careers they pursued in their home
countries and were forced to take up lower-level jobs.

"It's important for health practitioners to have the understanding that those
people have quite different circumstances and experiences, and that has a big
impact on their experience of family violence."

Women were often comfortable talking to their doctors, she said.

"This is one of the relationships that are out of the control of the
perpetrator," Ms Avdibegovic said. "If the children are sick the woman will have
to take her kids to the doctor, so there's a window of opportunity there for
them to get assistance."

A lawyer from InTouch will provide free legal help at the hospital once a week
to patients referred to them. A lawyer will also sit once a week at the
Dandenong Refugee Health Clinic, as part of a two-year program funded by the
Legal Services Board.

There is a growing number of partnerships between hospitals and legal centres to
bridge the gap between medical and legal help for family violence victims, who
are often isolated through their abuse.

Inner Melbourne Community Legal has given legal and family violence training to
more than 180 staff at the Royal Women's Hospital since 2012, including 30
doctors. It also provides free legal help there up to three times a week.

Women who were thinking about leaving their partners may also need help, said
the manager of the centre's "Acting on the Warning Signs" program, Linda Gyorki.

Royal Women's Hospital nurse and midwife Kate O'Donnell said the training helped
her to pick up cues from her patients she would not have previously have
noticed. This included people who repeatedly went to the emergency department
with urinary tract infections or reporting abdominal pain, with no obvious
source.

"Repeated admissions for non-specific things might [mean] there's something else
that she's trying to tell us but we're not asking the right question," she said.

The legal centre also provides free legal advice at the Royal Children's
Hospital and Royal Melbourne Hospital's Waratah mental outpatient facility.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     May 29, 1997, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital says pair on panel biased Wellesley launches legal challenge

BYLINE: BY RITA DALY TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 450 words


The commission in charge of closing Ontario hospitals has been accused of bias
in a legal challenge launched by one of the Metro hospitals it ordered shut.

Wellesley-Central Hospital is the first in Metro, and the second in the province
after the civic hospital in Pembroke, to take its fight to stay open into
Ontario's courts.

It is battling the 11-member Health Services Restructuring Commission in Ontario
Divisional Court on six grounds, among them that two of its commissioners have a
bias due to their ties to St. Michael's Hospital.

St. Mike's is the hospital that the commission in its March report ordering 10
Metro hospitals shut assigned to take full control of Wellesley-Central's
management, buildings and assets.

The commission members are Hartland MacDougall, deputy chairman of London
Insurance Group Inc., who was a founding member of St. Michael's Hospital
Foundation, and Daniel Ross, a London-based lawyer whose law firm McCarthy,
Tetrault represents St. Mike's.

Libby Burnham, chairperson of Wellesley-Central's board, said the commission has
shown an "unreasonable bias" against hospitals ordered to close.

"There is no commissioner who is attached to a hospital in Ontario slated to
close," she said in outlining their legal action.

In a brief statement through his insurance office, MacDougall said that in
accepting the role as commissioner, his conflict as St. Mike's foundation
chairperson was declared.

"It was agreed that he step down (as foundation chairperson), which he did in
January of this year," said Pat Novinger, MacDougall's executive assistant.

Ross could not be reached for comment.

The hospital also argues the commission let itself be politically influenced by
Health Minister Jim Wilson's office. Letters were sent from Wilson's office last
month to the commission favoring Wellesley-Central's closing, and at least one
letter specifically stated it agreed the HIV/AIDS program at Wellesley-Central
Hospital will be better off at a new clinic on Sherbourne St. run by St.
Michael's Hospital.

The legal action will also tackle Charter issues, arguing the rights of
patients, particularly homosexuals and women seeking birth control, will be
violated by having to obtain treatment at St. Mike's, a Catholic hospital.

The commission yesterday was surprised that Wellesley- Central was going ahead
with its legal action before it released its final report on Metro hospitals.

"We believe their decision to launch legal action at this time is somewhat
premature," said commission spokesperson Ruth Lewkowicz.

She said the commission is still in the process of reviewing all options, so "no
decisions have been made."


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Hartland MacDougall.
2 PHOTOS: Daniel Ross

                  Copyright 1997 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              19 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             April 28, 2017 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

St Vincent's board backs deal after reassurance it will own new hospital

BYLINE: Eilish O'Regan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 598 words


THE Sisters of Charity are to retain ownership of the new (EURO)300m national
maternity hospital when it moves to the St Vincent's campus, it was confirmed
last night.

The reassurance that the controversial deal underpinning the transfer of the
maternity hospital to the site would remain unchanged was key to the board of St
Vincent's Healthcare Group supporting the proposed relocation at a lengthy board
meeting yesterday.

The Sisters of Charity had been urged by critics of the deal to transfer the
site to the State, which would mean they would not be owners of the hospital,
removing concerns about the influence of the Catholic ethos on services. The
board, chaired by James Menton, and which was attended by its main shareholders
the Sisters of Charity, said St Vincent's and the board of the maternity
hospital in Holles St will now start the next phase of the project.

They will work with Health Minister Simon Harris and officials in translating
the agreement into a legal document to secure the clinical and corporate
governance structures of new hospital.

"These legal agreements will be effected in accordance with all of the
provisions contained in the agreement mediated by Kieran Mulvey and endorsed by
both hospitals."

The agreement, published in recent days, has been criticised by some legal
experts as failing to provide watertight safeguards that the new hospital will
have clinical independence.

In particular, they have drawn attention to the makeup of the nine-person board
and the method of selection of the international expert who will be a member and
have a casting vote.

The St Vincent's board said last night that "a new maternity hospital is
urgently needed."

Locating it alongside St. Vincent's acute hospital will provide synergies for
both hospitals that will lead to the delivery of modern, world class medical,
maternity and neonatal services.

"Every year St Vincent's provides acute care to over 80,000 women and it is
strongly positioned to provide women and infant-centred care in support of the
national maternity hosday pital at Elm Park. There is a long and historical
supportive clinical relationship between both hospitals."

It welcomed the endorsement of the agreement by the Holles Street board on
Wednes-night. This was rejected by three members, including the former Holles
Street master Dr Peter Boylan, who resigned yesterday saying the Holles St board
is "blind" to its actions.

The St Vincent's board also welcomed the clarity provided by the health
minister, saying he was " unequivocal" that the relocation would take place
under the terms of the agreement. Holles Street master Dr Rhona Mahony said she
remains convinced the agreement will guarantee the new hospital will have full
clinical independence.

The outcome of a planning application for the hospital is due in September.

Kieran Mulvey, the former chairman of the Workplace Relations Commission said
yesterday that the agreement does not purport to be a legal document.

It says quite clearly that the heads of agreement will have to go forward for
legal drafting.

But during the process legal experts for both hospitals analysed it, he said.

"I took independent legal advice myself. I have been drafting complex agreements
for 20 years," he said.

Support "Agreements are done with the intention of getting the support of the
parties."

Referring to concerns about the selection of an international expert with a
casting vote to the board of the new hospital he said that person would have to
be agreed by both hospitals.

"That was the compromise to prevent either side having a majority," he added.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              July 24, 2016 Sunday

Karachi Police Surgeon's post vacant for three months

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 204

LENGTH: 350  words


The Health Department Government of Sindh has failed to fill the vacant post of
Karachi Police Surgeon despite the passage three months, creating hindrance in
legal procedure and obtaining certificates in high-profile cases, it was learned
on Saturday.

Reliable sources at Medico-Legal Department told that the post of Police Surgeon
Karachi has been lying vacant for last three months and provincial health
department authorities have failed to finalize the name of official for this
important post. They said police surgeon post is lying vacant since 15th April
2016 after retirement of Dr Aftab Qureshi.

They said police surgeon is considered one of major post in medic-legal
department but due to non-serious attitude of   high-ups of health department
the post is lying vacant. All administrative and official works in medico-legal
departments of three major and six other hospitals have badly affected due to
delay in appointment police surgeon Karachi on vacant post.

Sources said this important post is being run on temporary basis since 2015 and
high ups of health department Sindh has miserably failed to finalize the name of
official in grade-20 for this important post.

Another official said health government Sindh has decided to appoint Medical
Superintendent of Shikarpur Hospital Dr Imtiaz Ahmed Jokhio, an officer on
grade-19, on Karachi Police Surgeon post. Dr Jokhio has promoted from grade-18
to grade-19 in recent past and he has no experience about Medico-Legal
Department.

Sources said there are three major hospitals of city having the facility of
Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) like Abbasi Shaheed Hospital, Jinnah Postgraduate
Medical Center( JPMC) and Civil Hospital (CHK), while medico-legal department in
six other hospitals like  Lyari General Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New
Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital
Saudabad, Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town and Sindh Government
Hospital Korangi are partially non-functional due to shortage of MLOs.

Secretary Health Sindh, Ahmed Baksh Narejo, was not available for comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     May 29, 1997, Thursday, METRO EDITION

Hospital says pair on panel biased Wellesley launches legal challenge

BYLINE: By Rita Daly TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 450 words


   The commission in charge of closing Ontario hospitals has been accused of
bias in a legal challenge launched by one of the Metro hospitals it ordered
shut.

Wellesley-Central Hospital is the first in Metro, and the second in the province
after the civic hospital in Pembroke, to take its fight to stay open into
Ontario's courts.

It is battling the 11-member Health Services Restructuring Commission in Ontario
Divisional Court on six grounds, among them that two of its commissioners have a
bias due to their ties to St. Michael's Hospital.

St. Mike's is the hospital that the commission in its March report ordering 10
Metro hospitals shut assigned to take full control of Wellesley-Central's
management, buildings and assets.

The commission members are Hartland MacDougall, deputy chairman of London
Insurance Group Inc., who was a founding member of St. Michael's Hospital
Foundation, and Daniel Ross, a London-based lawyer whose law firm McCarthy,
Tetrault represents St. Mike's.

Libby Burnham, chairperson of Wellesley-Central's board, said the commission has
shown an "unreasonable bias" against hospitals ordered to close.

"There is no commissioner who is attached to a hospital in Ontario slated to
close," she said in outlining their legal action.

In a brief statement through his insurance office, MacDougall said that in
accepting the role as commissioner, his conflict as St. Mike's foundation
chairperson was declared.

"It was agreed that he step down (as foundation chairperson), which he did in
January of this year," said Pat Novinger, MacDougall's executive assistant.

Ross could not be reached for comment.

The hospital also argues the commission let itself be politically influenced by
Health Minister Jim Wilson's office. Letters were sent from Wilson's office last
month to the commission favoring Wellesley-Central's closing, and at least one
letter specifically stated it agreed the HIV/AIDS program at Wellesley-Central
Hospital will be better off at a new clinic on Sherbourne St. run by St.
Michael's Hospital.

The legal action will also tackle Charter issues, arguing the rights of
patients, particularly homosexuals and women seeking birth control, will be
violated by having to obtain treatment at St. Mike's, a Catholic hospital.

The commission yesterday was surprised that Wellesley- Central was going ahead
with its legal action before it released its final report on Metro hospitals.

"We believe their decision to launch legal action at this time is somewhat
premature," said commission spokesperson Ruth Lewkowicz.

She said the commission is still in the process of reviewing all options, so "no
decisions have been made."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 PHOTOS: Daniel Ross; Hartland MacDougall.Ontario; hospital; closing;
damages; Health; Services; Restructuring; Commission

                  Copyright 1997 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              22 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           November 2, 1991 Saturday

END OF LEGAL DISPUTE SPURS HOSPITAL PLAN

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: GALLAGHER J

LENGTH: 332 words


End of legal dispute spurs hospital plan By JOE GALLAGHER A long-running legal
dispute which has left a $250 million Gold Coast private hospital gathering dust
for more than a year was resolved this week. The almost completed Moran Clinic
Hospital of Excellence at Tugan has been empty since work stopped in October
last year after the hospital's operator, Moran Health Care Group, began legal
action targeted at its two partners in the development, the Australian Guarantee
Corporation Ltd and Japanese company, C Itoh Ltd. The legal dispute was this
week resolved in an out-of-court settlement 15 months after the first legal
action was made in August last year. Although the parties would not release
details of the settlement, they said all litigation procedures in the New South
Wales Supreme Court had been terminated. A Westpac Banking Corporation
spokesman, Mr Graham Canning, said this had opened the way for the hospital to
open its doors as soon as timetables were worked out. AGC is a wholely-owned
subsidiary of Westpac. The legal action involved the Moran Group making a
multi-million dollar claim against the developing company, Relkban Pty Ltd, of
which it was a 20% shareholder. Relkban's other shareholders were AGC and C Itoh
which each held 40%. The Moran Group, which was the original project manager,
long-term operator and 20% equity holder, will no longer have any involvement
with the project. Moran's 20% stake in Relkban has been absorbed by AGC and C
Itoh and its operating and project management project contracts have been
relinquished. The chairman of the Moran Group, Mr Doug Moran, said yesterday he
was pleased that matters had been finalised. Moran was originally making the
claim, which it said could have amounted to $60 million, because AGC and C Itoh
stopped development of the hospital only months before it was scheduled to open.
THE Moran Clinic Hospital at Tugan on the Gold Coast. Westpac says it will soon
be ready to open its doors.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIC OF THE MORAN CLINIC HOSPITAL AT TUGAN ON THE GOLD COAST

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1991 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              23 of 993 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2012 by Orange County Bar Association
                              Orange County Lawyer

                                 December, 2012

                              Orange County Lawyer

                           54 Orange County Lawyer 32

LENGTH: 2606 words

FEATURE: DOES ANYONE READ THESE THINGS?: BOILERPLATE HOSPITAL ADMISSION FORMS

by Philip Michels and Steven B. Stevens

Philip Michels is a principal of the Law Offices of Michels & Watkins in Los
Angeles. He can be reached at pmichels@michelswatkins.com.
Steven B. Stevens is Of Counsel to the Law Offices of Michels & Watkins in Los
Angeles. He can be reached at sbstevens@michelswatkins.com.

TEXT:

    [*32]

   The modern hospital is much more than the building in which a surgeon
operates. It is a health care center, staffed with physicians, technicians, and
nurses, that needs patients in order to continue doing business. It invites
members of the public to come in for medical care--no appointment necessary, no
physician referral required.

   Although eager to attract patients, the hospital understandably is less so
when it comes to accepting responsibility for negligent medical care. The
hospital's effort to disavow liability for substandard care begins almost as
soon as the patient enters its doors: the Conditions of Admission form.

Hospital Standard Form "Conditions of Admission"

   "Conditions of Admission" forms, sometimes labeled "Conditions of Service,"
are standard form documents that are presented to emergency department patients
and to hospital scheduled admission patients upon entry to the hospital. Most of
the paragraphs in the Conditions of Admission form are routine and expected:
responsibility for payment; consent to treatment; protecting patient's
valuables. There is one paragraph in all of these standard forms, however, that
can be troublesome if the patient is injured by negligent medical care: the "
Legal Relationship" clause. A typical paragraph, taken from a hospital form in a
recent case, states (bold in original):


     Legal Relationship between Hospital and Physician: All physicians and
     surgeons furnishing services to the patient, including the Emergency
     Department physicians, radiologist, pathologist, anesthesiologist and
     the like are independent contractors with the patient and are not
     employees or agents of the hospital. The patient is under the care and
     supervision of his/her physician and it is the responsibility of the
     patient's physician or surgeon to obtain the patient's informed
     consent, when required, to medical or surgical treatment, special
     diagnostic or therapeutic procedures, or hospital services rendered
     for the patient under the general and special instructions of the
     physician. The physician's fees are billed separately and
     independently of hospital charges, which means you will receive
     multiple bills.

   In a medical negligence action, the hospital will contend that this
paragraph, placed within the standard form, is sufficient notice to the patient
to absolve it of responsibility for the negligence of the physicians that it
selected to treat the patient.

A Standard Form Is Not Conclusive Evidence of Actual Notice

   There are several theories upon which counsel for a patient can attack the
Conditions of Admission form and, in particular, the applicability of the "Legal
Relationship" clause.

   The first inquiry--a basic yet often overlooked question--is whether the
patient signed the form. It is not uncommon for the hospital to thrust the
Conditions of Admission form into the hands of a family member (spouse or adult
child) and demand a signature as a condition for treating the loved one. Setting
aside all of the problems with the paragraph (more about those, below), the
fundamental question becomes whether notice to a family member constitutes
notice to the patient. It does not. A familial relationship is not in itself an
agency relationship. Flores  [*33]  v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC, 148 Cal.
App. 4th 581, 589-590 (2007) ("there is no statutory authorization for a person
to agree to arbitration based solely on a familial relationship with the
patient"); Avedissian v. Manukian, 141 Cal. App. 3d 379, 385 (1983) ("agency
cannot be implied merely from the marriage relation alone"). Nor is a familial
relationship, alone, an ostensible agency. The hospital would have to show that
the patient did something to hold out his spouse, child, or parent as his agent.
See South Sacramento Drayage Co. v. Campbell Soup Co., 220 Cal. App. 2d 851, 857
(1963) ("Ostensible authority must be based upon acts or declarations of the
principal and not the conduct or representations of the alleged agent.");
Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center, Inc., 99 Cal. App. 4th 298 (2002) (absent some
act of parent through which she held out children as her agents, their
signatures were insufficient to compel arbitration of action).

A Conditions of Admission Form, by Itself, Is Insufficient To Show Actual Notice
as a Matter of Law

   The threshold question to determine a hospital's vicarious liability for the
negligent acts of the health care providers practicing therein is whether the
patient or the hospital selected that provider to treat the patient. Brown v. La
Societe Francaise De  [*34]  Bienfaisance Mutuelle, 138 Cal. 475 (1903) (patient
had contracted with the hospital for medical care and, therefore, the hospital
was liable for the physician's negligence); Seneris v. Haas, 45 Cal. 2d 811, 832
(1955) (hospital may be held liable for negligence of on-call anesthesiologist;
"it cannot be 'seriously contended' that [the patient] was obligated to inquire
whether each person who attended her in said hospital was an employee or
independent contractor").

   Mejia v. Community Hospital of San Bernardino, 99 Cal. App. 4th 1448 (2002)
held that an on-call radiologist was the ostensible agent of a hospital because
the hospital chose that radiologist to provide health care to the
plaintiff-patient. The plaintiff in Mejia went to the hospital emergency room
with complaints of severe neck pain. The hospital assigned her to an emergency
room physician who then ordered x-rays of the plaintiff's neck. The radiologist
misinterpreted the x-ray. The trial court ruled that the radiologist was not the
ostensible agent of the hospital and granted a nonsuit in the hospital's favor.
The Court of Appeal, applying the well-settled law of California and the modern
trend throughout the country, reversed.

   Mejia explained the two elements of ostensible agency in the context of a
hospital's liability for injury to one of its patients. Those elements are: (1)
conduct by the hospital that would cause a reasonable person to believe that the
physician was the agent of the hospital; and (2) reliance on that apparent
agency relationship by the plaintiff. Mejia, 99 Cal. App. 4th at 1453 (citations
omitted).

   The appellate court further delineated the proof required to meet each of
those elements:

     Regarding the first element, courts generally conclude that it is
     satisfied when the hospital "holds itself out" to the public as a
     provider of care. . . . In order to prove this element, it is not
     necessary to show an express representation by the hospital. . . .
     Instead, a hospital is generally deemed to have held itself out as the
     provider of care, unless it gave the patient contrary notice. . . .
     . . . .
     . . . The second element, reliance, is established when the plaintiff
     "looks to" the hospital for services, rather than to an individual
     physician. . . . However, reliance need not be proven by direct
     testimony. . . . If a person voluntarily enters a hospital without
     objecting to his or her admission to the hospital, then that person is
     seeking care from the hospital itself.

Mejia, 99 Cal. App. 4th at 1453-1454 (citations and internal quotations omitted;
emphasis added).

   A defendant-hospital that wants to avoid liability as a matter of
law--through motions for nonsuit, summary judgment, or directed verdict--for the
wrongful acts of the health care providers that it selected to treat a patient
has an exceptionally heavy burden.

     When this standard [nonsuit] is applied to the case law governing
     ostensible agency in the hospital context, it appears difficult, if
     not impossible, for a hospital to ever obtain a nonsuit based on the
     lack of ostensible agency. Effectively, all a patient needs to show is
     that he or she sought treatment at the hospital . . . . Unless the
     evidence conclusively indicates that the patient should have known
     that the treating physician was not the hospital's agent, such as when
     the patient is treated by his or her personal physician, the issue of
     ostensible agency must be left to the trier of fact.

 [*35]  Mejia, 99 Cal. App. 4th at 1458 (emphasis added). See also Ermoian v.
Desert Hosp., 152 Cal. App. 4th 475 (2007) (where patient sought obstetrical
care from hospital's outpatient clinic, had no previous relationship with any
physician there, and hospital assigned physician to care for her, patient had a
reasonable belief that the hospital was providing care to her and physicians
were ostensible agents of hospital).

The "Legal Relationship" Clause Is Insufficient

   The "Legal Relationship" paragraph is not sufficient to meet summary judgment
standards. Whether a notice is sufficient to inform a party about a fact is a
question of fact for the jury to resolve. See Renton v. Monnier, 77 Cal. 449,
456 (1888) ("whether notice was given or not, and, if given, whether [the party]
understood it, and it was sufficient to put him on his guard or, in the language
of the Code, to put a prudent man upon inquiry (Civil Code § 19) were questions
of fact for the jury . . .").

   A disclosure in itself, even if made to a sophisticated party, does not
foreclose liability if the totality of the circumstances makes it reasonable to
conclude that the party is dealing with an agent of the putative principal. See
Kaplan v. Coldwell Banker Residential Affiliates, 59 Cal. App. 4th 741 (1997)
(holding that where plaintiff, a superior court judge and sophisticated real
estate investor, relied upon national reputation of name of real estate broker
and failed to notice disclaimer, in smaller print, that broker was independent
franchise of national company, whether national company was the putative
principal of broker was a question of fact for jury to resolve).

   There is often no evidence concerning whether an emergency department patient
was able to read and appreciate the ramifications of the "Legal Relationship"
clause. Patients are often in intense pain. Parents are focused on a child who
needs emergency care. It is indeed overreaching to charge a desperate patient
with understanding lengthy boilerplate forms, and fault him or her for not
reading them more closely.

   Even if a patient is capable of reading a form, understanding the words and
understanding their ramifications are two very different things. It is not
uncommon for the average patient to find the former confusing and the latter
incomprehensible. The "Legal Relationship" clause was drafted by hospital
counsel using legal terms of art to accomplish the goal of avoiding liability
[*36]  for the negligence of the physicians that the hospital selected to treat
the patient.

   The average patient would expect to be asked to pay for medical care, so a
clause about that is not surprising. The average patient would expect to be
asked to consent to medical treatment, so a clause about that is not a surprise
either. The average patient would be quite surprised to learn, however, that the
hospital to which she has gone for treatment is trying to disclaim
responsibility for the very physicians it selected to treat her. It is certainly
counterintuitive for the average patient to understand that, having been invited
by the hospital to seek care, and having accepted that invitation, the hospital
is not responsible for the care provided.

   The "Legal Relationship" paragraph sometimes contradicts other parts of the
Conditions of Admission form. In teaching hospitals, the form often includes a
paragraph that purports to notify the patient that some of the physicians who
will be treating her are residents and postgraduate fellows. Residents and
postgraduates are ordinarily employees of the hospital. Univ. of Southern
California v. Super. Ct., 45 Cal. App. 4th 1283, 1289 (1996) ("[a medical
resident] treats his employer's patients . . . and because of the
employer-employee relationship, the hospital is liable for his negligence under
accepted principles of respondeat superior"); see also Regents of the Univ. of
California v. Public Employment Relations Board, 31 Cal. 3d 601 (1986) (medical
residents are members of hospital's house staff, employed by hospital).

   If the assumption is that the average patient read and understood the legal
implications of the form, then the end result is a standard form agreement that
notifies a patient that some physicians are independent contractors, while
others are employees of the hospital. The Conditions of Admission form, however,
does not tell the patient how to differentiate the two. This lack of information
is especially problematic if the resident physician provides medical care
without direct patient contact (for example, a resident in pathology or
radiology).

   Also, the typical title of the clause is misleading. As in the example,
above, the bold heading of the paragraph announces that there is a "Legal
Relationship Between Hospital and Physician." To the average
patient--especially, but not exclusively, one in the emergency room--the title
manifests the obvious: there is a "legal relationship between" the hospital and
the physicians it selects to treat a patient. The average patient would not
expect the text that follows to contradict what the title conveys.

   The "Legal Relationship" paragraph often emphasizes billing, not liability.
As in the sample above, the hospital makes bold the sentence that physicians
bill separately from the hospital. Again, for the patient with no relevant legal
training,  n1 scanning a document quickly in the hospital, the disclosure--if it
can be called that--is nothing more than to expect lots of bills.

   Hospitals sometimes try to enforce the "Legal Relationship" clause using
contract principles, i.e. because the patient signed it, it doesn't matter
whether he read or understood it. The paragraph is not, however, an exchange of
promises or obligations. Its function is to be a disclosure. As Mejia explains,
constructive notice is insufficient.

Conclusion

   When the hospital attorneys step into court, they insist that the "Legal
Relationship" clause is a warning to the patient that, "if the doctors that we
assigned to you commit malpractice, you cannot sue us, you can sue only them."
The paragraph does not say that, however; certainly not explicitly. Hospitals do
not want to acknowledge negligence that occurs within their walls. Even in
standard boilerplate forms, which are rarely read, hospitals loathe to disclose
(or even hint) that a patient might be a victim of negligence. A notice, if it
is to be meaningful, must be clear. The Conditions of Admission form is not the
shield that hospitals desire it to be.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Business & Corporate LawAgency RelationshipsAuthority to ActGeneral
OverviewBusiness & Corporate LawAgency RelationshipsEstablishmentEstoppel,
Ostensible Agency & NecessityOstensible AgencyCivil ProcedurePretrial
JudgmentsNonsuitsGeneral Overview

GRAPHIC:
PICTURE, no caption

FOOTNOTE-1:





n1  Even a license to practice law might not help the unwary patient. In the
authors' experience, a large number of lawyers who work outside of the medical
negligence field are surprised by the "Legal Relationship" clause and by its
possible legal effect, if signed. Like any other patient or parent, when they or
their children are in need of medical care, lawyers will sign anything placed in
front of them to get that care.


                              24 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 9, 1998, Monday
                              Correction Appended

Millions spent in hospital suit

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



There is no winner yet in the three-year legal fight between the city and the
non-profit group that runs Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital - except maybe the
lawyers for both sides.

The attorneys so far have taken home nearly $ 1.7-million in fees and  expenses.
Unless a settlement results soon from new talks that began Thursday,  the money
faucet will keep gushing.

City records document $ 428,081 of tax money spent on the city's legal team.
The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation spent nearly three times as much: an
estimated $ 1,256,000, according to hospital administrator Joseph Kiefer.

The city's $ 428,000 alone could have bought 19 new police cars with lights  and
cages for transporting prisoners.

It could have paid the electricity bills for the city's five parks, eight
athletic courts, six sports fields, two playgrounds and two recreation centers
for 12 years.

It could have paid the annual salary for 29 laborers who repair and build  the
city's roads.

The hospital could have bought medical equipment, treated the poor for free  or
charged all patients less if it had not paid the fees.

"I think the whole damn thing's been a waste of money," said John  Tarapani,
chairman of the board that leases the city-owned hospital to the  foundation. "I
think it's sad it went this far without people sitting down  and talking."

The legal dispute began in late 1994 when the hospital announced it  intended to
affiliate with the for-profit Columbia-HCA hospital chain. The  City Commission
blocked the partnership.

The foundation spent about $ 449,000 of its total legal fees trying to make  the
deal happen. The city spent about $ 137,000 of its fees blocking the deal  and
then trying to sell the hospital to another non-profit group. City voters  nixed
the idea of selling the hospital.

Then the city-appointed Health Facilities Authority that Tarapani chairs
declared the hospital in default of its lease. The hospital sued to get a  judge
to determine whether that was true and to clarify the three groups'  roles.

The Health Facilities Authority owes another $ 100,000 or so in unpaid legal
fees, according to Tarapani. Who should pay those bills is a point of
contention in the legal fight.

The players on both sides acknowledge they have paid lawyers a lot of  money.
They say they hated to spend it. They both claim self-defense, saying  they had
no choice but to spend the money.

"We didn't initiate the lawsuit," Mayor Anita Protos said. "The city  must
defend itself. Our attorneys have tried to be very cautious. We have  worked
with our attorneys to try to keep the costs down."

The amount of the legal fees is "definitely above normal, but we had to  defend
ourselves," said Kiefer, who also is a member of the 11-member board  of the
hospital foundation.

Other board members contacted last week directed all questions to Kiefer.

Ed Cole, a board member of the Citizens Alliance for Progress, a  neighborhood
improvement group, suggests there were better ways to spend  $ 1.7-million in
the public interest, which both the city and the hospital  foundation say they
exist to serve.

"That's a million, seven hundred thousand dollars that could have gone to
improve housing, improve streets and a lot of things that have come before the
board of commissioners this year," Cole said. The city could have used some  of
the money to fight its persistent illegal drug trade, he said.

The city's two top lawyers on the case put in long hours: Barbara Pankau at  $
220 an hour and Phil Campbell at $ 210 an hour. Both work for the Tampa firm  of
Honigman, Miller, Schwartz & Cohn. Pankau formerly worked for Shumaker,  Loop &
Kendrick, and some of the legal fees included in the city's total were  paid to
that firm.

There were also $ 75-an-hour legal assistants and court reporting costs.

The hospital's law firm is Buchanan Ingersoll of Tampa and Pittsburgh, and  its
lead attorneys are James Kennedy III and Samuel Braver. None of the  lawyers
could be reached Friday.

The fight has been long and both sides say they are tired. They also hint  that
a settlement might result soon from the current negotiations.

Asked recently what issues the lawsuit started over, City Manager Costa
Vatikiotis thought for a minute or so and then said he couldn't remember.

"I think that the lawsuit has always been a waste in my opinion, and I  think
the issues are obsolete," Vatikiotis said. "They certainly have  outlived their
relevancy. That's my personal opinion."

However, blocking the Columbia-HCA deal, he said, was money well spent.

"That money was literally used to save the hospital," he said.

The suspicions created by the hospital's surprise announcement of that  planned
merger damaged the city's trust in the Tarpon Springs Hospital  Foundation.
Vatikiotis said that trust is being rebuilt in the current  settlement talks.

The discussions are closed, and no one who attended them last week will say  in
detail what was discussed. Another meeting is planned for Tuesday.

"Joe (Kiefer) made a comment that they have learned a lot from the  Columbia
experience," Vatikiotis said. "I don't know that there would be a  repeat of
that whether there was a settlement or not."

Kiefer also welcomed the renewed possibility of a quick end to the fight  and an
end to the spending on lawyers.

"I'm optimistic," he said. "I think if we can settle, it will be much  less
expensive than preparing for and going to trial."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; PASCO TIMES

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 1998

CORRECTION:
 Attorneys Barbara Pankau and Phil Campbell work for Shumaker, Loop & Kendrick.
Pankau formerly worked for Honigman, Miller, Schwartz & Cohn. A story in
Monday's Times about the ongoing legal battle between the city of Tarpon Springs
and the Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation incorrectly stated the firms.

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JOSEPH GARNETT JR.; COLOR GRAPH; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO,
(3); BLACK AND WHITE GRAPH; (1997) Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital; stacks of
dollars to represent the amount of money spent by the city of Tarpon Springs and
the private Tarpon Springs Hospital foundation on legal fees since 1994, (ran
NT); Joseph Kiefer (ran NT); John Tarapani (ran NT); Costa Vatikiotis (ran NT);
stacks of dollars to represent the amount of money spent by the city of Tarpon
Springs and the private Tarpon Springs Hospital foundation on legal fees since
1994, (ran PT)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              25 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                     February 13, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Legal Advocacy to Promote the Rule of Law
in-Depth Multi-Channel

LENGTH: 885  words


Beijing, Feb. 13 -- To comprehensively promote the rule of law, accelerate the
construction of a socialist country ruled by law, Lingshan County People's Court
of active legal campaign, multi-channel, multi-angle, multi-form carried out the
legal publicity and education activities, establishing the legal authority in
the whole society, promote social justice and deep-seated , achieved good
results.



Leadership attention, build strong legal publicity team

Lingshan Court attaches great importance to the importance of legal advocacy,
hospital party to provide full support for the legal advocacy, with a strong
staff to do to protect the funds. Each trial are equipped with hospital
information propagandists, as of now, the hospital full-time research room has
been equipped with high-definition cameras publicized a desk, DV machine,
equipped with three cameras, a voice recorder. Each division, department, room,
teams are equipped with a camera. Protection hardware, software, power has also
been strengthened. Increase the capacity of the hospital public information
training of police officers, taken part in a variety of news and propaganda
business training, invited experts, media reporter for the hospital and police
officers to conduct special training, organization and methods of writing skills
exchange propaganda manuscript hospital and police officers, and strengthen
Correspondent of professionalism and responsibility to mobilize the enthusiasm
of the hospital police officers writing, to change the past only full-time
responsibility of one or two people, into a news propaganda more flowering, to
build a high political consciousness, professional quality hard legal publicity
team.

Held a press conference for the depth of the Franco-Prussian society

To allow the community to learn more about promoting open justice court, the
implementation of the sun of justice, serving the overall development of the
main measures to narrow the distance between the courts and the public, outward
show the effectiveness of the courts. The morning of November 8 last year, the
hospital held a "sun of justice" and the service of major projects and business
development news conference, and live by the hospital official microblogging
invite Qinzhou daily newspaper, the North Bay Morning, Lingshan television,
Lingshan Radio, Lingshan News and other media reporters to attend. The press
conference to show the community hospital in 2013 to serve the area and the sun
of justice major projects and business development.

Households delivery method, and actively promote the popularization and
education activities

Lingshan court by conducting various forms of legal advocacy and counseling
activities to enhance public awareness of the law, strengthen their legal
concept. The hospital actively send France into campus activities, many times to
the legal system given the area schools, to carry out "with Law, booster dream"
moot court, the legal education from the student grabbed. The hospital has also
implemented the "going out, please come in" publicity and strategy, first point
of contact for the organization hanging judge to send France into the village to
carry out household activities, house to house visits by the way, the rule of
law to the masses distribute promotional materials and convenient contact cards
, and for the legal issues of concern to the masses, combined with relevant laws
and regulations, eliminating confusion for the masses, so that the people
understand the law, will use to enhance public awareness of the risks and rights
awareness and guide the masses correctly to avoid risks, to avoid the occurrence
of conflicts and disputes . Second, actively carry out the court open day, open
the door to let people understand the trial court environment up close, court
culture results, measure the sun of justice, so that people feel open and
impartial judiciary, enhance their legal awareness, legal awareness. Last year
the hospital all kinds of promotional materials were distributed more than 3,000
copies, 7,000 people by educating the masses.

Giving full play to the role of the network, legal education to build a large
platform

Internet media has spread rapidly, wide coverage, vivid, and so easy to accept,
and the infinite diversity of its freedom of communication, communication space
on the propagation time on loved by the masses, as people learn of legal
knowledge , an important channel to get legal help. Since last year, the network
Lingshan open court, legal education to build a large platform to deepen the sun
of justice, to promote open justice and promote the work of the courts fair,
impartial, open and transparent. Make full use of China Court website platform,
and actively promote the "Network trial live" work of live online court cases
20; official microblogging registration court, set up a special studio,
designate a person responsible for the daily maintenance and management, and
carry out "microblogging trial live." . Since opening last May, there are 745
cases of official Sina Weibo were broadcast, publish, transmit tweets 1558, a
total of 3044 copies of documents posted on the commencement referee. Our
hospital was named the official microblogging autonomous region for the year
2013 the Court of the Superior Court "Top Ten microblogging."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday

SPG docs refuse to conduct medico legal formalities in private hospital

SECTION: VARANASI

LENGTH: 502 words


VARANASI: By asking the government doctors to visit private hospital to complete
medico legal formalities in criminal cases for the third time in
one-and-half-month, the police have stirred up the hornet's nest as the doctors
of SPG Hospital refused to visit private hospital and also raised voice against
the cops.

After the employees of a business firm were shot at in loot bid at Sigra
crossing, the injured were rushed to a private hospital in Maldahiya. SP city
Rahul Raj sent a letter to the superintendent-in-chief of SPG Hospital, asking
him to send a medical officer to complete the medico legal formalities in the
hospital. The SP referred the possibility of law and order problem in case of
delay in completing the formality as it could delay in beginning of treatment.

However, the hospital authorities refused to send officer to private hospitals
for medico legal work and termed it as illegal. It led to high drama for some
time. UP Provincial Medical and Health Services Association (UPPMHSA) swung into
action in support of the SPG Hospital doctors. UPPMHSA vice-president AK Singh
and local unit general secretary Arvind Singh convened a press conference and
claimed that in the past one-and-half-month it was the third time when police
wrote such letter to the divisional hospital.

They said that on past two occasions, the doctors accepted the request of police
for sending emergency medical officer (EMO) to conduct medico legal formalities
in criminal cases. But, it can not be done on all the occasions as the practice
is illegal as per the provisions prescribed in the medical manual of state
government, which states that the government doctors can not visit private
hospital for this purpose. They said that in two cases, the Supreme Court had
given guidelines, which were also considered by the Union government as law.
These guidelines are sufficient to make it clear that in the cases of life
threatening situation, saving the life of patient is must, they said adding, in
such circumstances no law would be considered as hurdle to begin the treatment.

They said that if medico legal formalities are considered as must before
beginning treatment of any patient, any qualified medical practitioner with
minimum qualification of MBBS can conduct it. The UPPMHSA said that whenever the
government doctors conduct medico legal formalities in private hospital, the
reason for it is sought by the court and the credential of such doctors are
considered as doubtful.

Whenever any EMO is compelled to visit a private hospital for medico legal
formalities, the emergency services of government hospital suffers. They said
that the state unit general secretary of association had been made aware about
the current practices of Varanasi police and also the stand of government
doctors. The office-bearers of the association would make the director of health
department aware about it. They said that these practices are not being followed
in any district of state.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           November 23, 1989 Thursday

Standards of care set for doctors

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 377 words


Royal Adelaide Hospital doctors have been told they have to provide a
"reasonable" standard of care for patients during times of rationed medical
services.

The doctors had sought a legal opinion of their responsibility in such
circumstances.

The opinion, in a memorandum circulated throughout the hospital by the medical
director, Dr Richenda Webb, says the hospital and its clinicians are under a
legal duty to provide a reasonable standard of care even where treatment options
are limited by hospital policy and/or lack of resources.

The legal opinion from the hospital's solicitors was sought at the request of
the hospital's drug committee, which was concerned about restrictions in the
prescribing of expensive drugs.

The legal opinion says "reasonable" cannot be precisely defined but means that
standard of care which the law expects of a large public hospital.

"The law would regard it as reasonable, for instance, for the hospital to place
some restriction on the availability of drugs," the memorandum says.

It says a policy to restrict "over-prescription" of expensive drugs or drugs in
short supply would be regarded as reasonable.

"Our view is that no legal liability would attach to the hospital in respect of
a decision made on economic grounds not to have available for prescription a
certain drug, or to have only a limited supply of certain drugs so long as that
decision was not made unreasonable," says the memorandum.

It was not within the province of the law to direct hospital managements as to
what funds to make available to departments or to direct departments how to
allocate limited financial resources.

The legal opinion, sought after restrictions were imposed on the RAH during its
budget blow-out earlier this year, says if it was foreseen that a patient's
condition was such that it may require treatment by a drug that may be
unavailable, the hospital had a legal duty to advise the patient of that fact
and to give the patient the option of seeking other treatment.

While it may not be possible in situations such as an emergency admission, in
cases where deferment of treatment would not be harmful, the failure to advise
the patient might attract legal liability if harm to the patient resulted.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1989 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              28 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            October 17, 2006 Tuesday

Lack of consultation may hit hospital bid

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 525 words


A Council could launch a legal bid to halt Government plans to build a
privately-run NHS hospital.

South Gloucestershire Council's ruling cabinet is to seek its lawyers' advice
over a legal challenge to the Department of Health's decision to allow an
Independent Sector Treatment Centre, which would use a contractor to treat NHS
patients, to be set up in the district without first consulting the authority.

The council said it would now seek legal advice about the potential for a
successful legal challenge to the Department of Health to require it to start a
full and meaningful public consultation.

Campaigners from the Save Frenchay Hospital group demanded intervention from the
council saying residents should have been told about plans for a privately-run
hospital before any decision was made on the Bristol Health Services Plan, which
resulted in a decision to downgrade Frenchay to a community hospital and build a
new acute hospital at Southmead.

The three-party cabinet said the proposed Independent Sector Treatment Centre,
which could be built at Emerson's Green, would "constitute a substantial
variation to local health provision in South Gloucestershire".

John Calway, the council's joint deputy leader and the leader of the
Conservative group, said: "Our residents have a right to know exactly what this
private hospital is, what services it will take from our existing hospital and
where it is going.

"There are real concerns about what the real reason for downgrading Frenchay is
and people are concerned that it has been deliberately downgraded to make way
for this private hospital.

"Unless we get full information we will never be convinced this private hospital
has not always been part of the plan to  systematically downgrade Frenchay."

Councillor Colin Hunt (Siston, Con) said: "I am delighted that the council has
accepted our arguments that it is a scandal that the Government can try and make
such a massive and radical change to our hospitals, without asking anyone.

"It beggars belief that the Department said it didn't need our beloved and
treasured Frenchay as an acute hospital and then this year announced it has
already developed plans for a large private hospital to be built in Frenchay's
catchment area."

Pat Hockey, executive councillor for planning and highways, said the authority
had promised Frenchay a community hospital but plans for a new private hospital
in the area could put it in jeopardy.

She said: "It is time for honesty and openness in the consultation process. This
is why the Liberal Democrats supported a cross party decision to seek further
legal advice."

The Save Frenchay Hospital group collected almost 50,000 names on a petition
objecting to the downgrading of Frenchay to a 50-bed community hospital.

Melanie Chiswell, for NHS South West, said the consultation process over the
Bristol Health Services plan took place between September and December of 2004
and predated the development of the private hospital.

She said the ISTC was part of Government policy to introduce choice into the
health economy to drive improvements in the quality of health care and
efficiency for the benefit of patients.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            October 17, 2006 Tuesday

Lack of consultation may hit hospital bid

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 525 words


A Council could launch a legal bid to halt Government plans to build a
privately-run NHS hospital.

South Gloucestershire Council's ruling cabinet is to seek its lawyers' advice
over a legal challenge to the Department of Health's decision to allow an
Independent Sector Treatment Centre, which would use a contractor to treat NHS
patients, to be set up in the district without first consulting the authority.

The council said it would now seek legal advice about the potential for a
successful legal challenge to the Department of Health to require it to start a
full and meaningful public consultation.

Campaigners from the Save Frenchay Hospital group demanded intervention from the
council saying residents should have been told about plans for a privately-run
hospital before any decision was made on the Bristol Health Services Plan, which
resulted in a decision to downgrade Frenchay to a community hospital and build a
new acute hospital at Southmead.

The three-party cabinet said the proposed Independent Sector Treatment Centre,
which could be built at Emerson's Green, would "constitute a substantial
variation to local health provision in South Gloucestershire".

John Calway, the council's joint deputy leader and the leader of the
Conservative group, said: "Our residents have a right to know exactly what this
private hospital is, what services it will take from our existing hospital and
where it is going.

"There are real concerns about what the real reason for downgrading Frenchay is
and people are concerned that it has been deliberately downgraded to make way
for this private hospital.

"Unless we get full information we will never be convinced this private hospital
has not always been part of the plan to  systematically downgrade Frenchay."

Councillor Colin Hunt (Siston, Con) said: "I am delighted that the council has
accepted our arguments that it is a scandal that the Government can try and make
such a massive and radical change to our hospitals, without asking anyone.

"It beggars belief that the Department said it didn't need our beloved and
treasured Frenchay as an acute hospital and then this year announced it has
already developed plans for a large private hospital to be built in Frenchay's
catchment area."

Pat Hockey, executive councillor for planning and highways, said the authority
had promised Frenchay a community hospital but plans for a new private hospital
in the area could put it in jeopardy.

She said: "It is time for honesty and openness in the consultation process. This
is why the Liberal Democrats supported a cross party decision to seek further
legal advice."

The Save Frenchay Hospital group collected almost 50,000 names on a petition
objecting to the downgrading of Frenchay to a 50-bed community hospital.

Melanie Chiswell, for NHS South West, said the consultation process over the
Bristol Health Services plan took place between September and December of 2004
and predated the development of the private hospital.

She said the ISTC was part of Government policy to introduce choice into the
health economy to drive improvements in the quality of health care and
efficiency for the benefit of patients.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     November 7, 2003 Friday Final Edition

Bid to halt closure of Saint Mary's hospital dies: Nuns who own the facility
don't back legal fight

SOURCE: Vancouver Sun

BYLINE: Chad Skelton

SECTION: News; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 368 words

The legal fight to prevent the closure of Saint Mary's Hospital in New
Westminster is effectively dead after the nuns who own the hospital announced
they want nothing to do with the case.

On Tuesday, a legal petition was filed in B.C. Supreme Court in the name of
several parties, including the Sisters of Providence -- the Catholic religious
order that owns the hospital -- arguing that the Fraser Health Authority
violated its contract with the hospital when it decided to cut its funding.

But in a news release, the Sisters of Providence said they don't want to
participate in the legal action. "We are not involved in any lawsuit nor have we
endorsed the initiation of any legal action under our name," the statement read.
"We seek ways to address the situation with compassion, justice and concern for
all involved. The Sisters will work with the Ministry of Health in seeking
opportunities to serve the people of New Westminster in the future."

Saint Mary's spokesman Karl Crosby said the decision to proceed with the legal
action was made by the hospital's board of trustees, which acts on behalf of the
Sisters.

He said the idea of going to the courts to save the hospital had been discussed
with the Sisters in the past and -- after the health authority announced its
intention to close the hospital on Monday -- the board decided to proceed with
the petition.

"The board voted on Monday evening to undertake the action because they figured
it was time," Crosby said. But he said that shortly after the petition was
filed, the Sisters told the board they didn't want to take part.

"It's not their nature to be in the public eye or to create controversy and they
advised the board that they would not participate," he said.

Crosby said representatives of the Sisters met with the hospital board Thursday
morning and said there was some chance the action may still go forward.

But Sister Mary Lei Gordon, Western Canadian treasurer of the Sisters, said the
nuns have made their decision. "There is no legal action, period." And Gordon
added that, given that the Sisters own the hospital, there is little chance of
the legal action proceeding without them.

cskelton@png.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                             June 29, 2017 Thursday

An insufficient medico-legal system for the city with the highest crime rate

BYLINE: Mudaser Kazi

LENGTH: 1049  words


With only three medico-legal centres operational in a city that has a population
of more than 20 million and the highest crime rate in the country, there is a
dire need to strengthen the medico-legal system in Karachi.

The annual budget of the entire medico-legal section of the health department
stands at not more than Rs0.7 million, while no medical equipment is being
provided to officers to perform their daily services.

In Karachi alone, more than 25,000 cases are handled by medico-legal officers
(MLOs) in a year in the three major healthcare facilities of the city. The
health department is responsible for providing medico-legal facilities in nine
sub-stations established at all the general hospitals in Sindh. However, due to
a lack of infrastructure, trained doctors and staff, the patients seeking
medico-legal certificates only have the option to visit Civil Hospital, Karachi,
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC) or Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

The overall shortage of doctors in the province has started reflecting on
medico-legal services of the health department, which will most likely collapse,
said a senior doctor serving at a medico-legal centre in Karachi.

Performance audit: Panel to pick flaws in public health facilities

'Medico-legal services are an integral part of prosecution,' said Additional
Police Surgeon Dr Rohina Hasan, while speaking to The Express Tribune about the
importance of MLOs. She added that they provide medical services for the
legality of the cases. 'Although the medico-legal section is a part of the Sindh
government's health department, its primary objective is to help the police
department in their investigations,' she said.

According to Dr Hasan, unnatural deaths or injuries are referred to the medico-
legal section, as the MLOs decide about the nature and cause of injuries in
assaults, road accidents and poison or bullet inflicted injuries or deaths. 'Had
there been no medico-legal services, no one would get justice and bodies would
not even be released, [as medico-legal formalities would not be completed],' Dr
Hasan added.

Medical examinations of patients are conducted at medico-legal centres, from
where medico-legal certificates are issued. Besides this, MLOs are also
responsible for conducting post-mortems and exhumations, issuing death
certificates and, at times, appearing before a court to give statements.

Regulatory body: Healthcare commission ready to take on quackery

According to Dr Hasan, the medico-legal section in all the three major hospitals
is so understaffed that they do not have replacements when one of the doctors
goes on leave. Currently, she said, no specialised qualification is required to
become an MLO. She said that training of six months under senior doctors after
the completion of MBBS is enough for them to start working as an MLO.

The medico-legal section works under medical jurisprudence law and relevant MLOs
conduct autopsies and exhumations under the Pakistan Penal Code (PPC). They
issue certificates based on different sections of the PPC, depending on the
nature of the injuries inflicted on the body, explained one of the senior
medical officers working at JPMC.

Apart from Karachi, casualty medical officers have the power to issue medical
certificates and provide medico-legal services, which do not fall under the
jurisdiction of the police surgeon of Sindh. Currently, there are no permanent
police surgeons in the province. However, an additional police surgeon is acting
as a police surgeon and has drawing and dispensing powers.

Only four female MLOs in the entire city

According to a female medico-legal officer (MLO), as per the Supreme Court's
ruling of 1996, all female victims will only be examined by female doctors and
staff. However, due to the non-availability of female staff in the medico-legal
section, the post-mortems of female victims are conducted by female MLOs in the
presence of male staff.

Healthcare facilities: State-of-the-art hospital expanded to 350 beds

There are only nine sanctioned posts of female MLOs in Karachi, whereas the
working force has decreased to five. Out of these sanctioned posts, four are for
senior MLOs of BPS-18 and five of BPS-17. The existing hierarchy and sanctioned
posts to provide medico-legal facilities at public hospitals were approved more
than 30 years ago when the crime rate and population were relatively very low.

Currently one of the doctors is on medical leave, leaving behind only four
female MLOs for the entire city. Other than this, there are no female MLOs
available to work in the night shift due to a shortage, due to which female
patients are left unattended.

Out of four female MLOs at government hospitals, one is serving at the JPMC
while three are serving at Civil Hospital, Karachi. Abbasi Shaheed Hospital,
which is one of the major public hospitals in the city, does not have any female
MLO and a grade-19 additional police surgeon has been performing duties instead
of a female MLO. In the absence of the additional police surgeon, the patients
and bodies are referred to Civil Hospital, Karachi or JPMC.

Islamabad general hospital: Health facility likely to open in 2019

Speaking to The Express Tribune, police surgeon Dr Aijaz Ahmed Khokhar said the
sanctioned strength should be doubled. According to Dr Khokhar, out of the total
cases that they receive at the medico-legal facility, 30% cases are of female
victims that are attended by only three female MLOs in Karachi.

Out of 71 sanctioned posts of male MLOs, 31 are vacant, which has resulted in
late and delayed provision of medico-legal facilities, Dr Khokhar said.

'The lack of doctors and provision of facilities has resulted in our suffering,'
said Muhammad Ibrahim, who was waiting to get his sister examined for more than
three hours outside the examination room of the medico-legal section in Civil
Hospital, Karachi. Ibrahim said he came all the way from Landhi, where there are
no nearby facilities providing such services.

An official health department told The Express Tribune that the shortage of
doctors in the province has resulted in a lack of applicants to fill the vacant
positions in the medico-legal section. However, he said, through appointment of
medical officers, this long-pending problem will be resolved in the upcoming few
months.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          October 26, 1996, Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Tarpon loses lawsuit over legal fees

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 144 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



A judge has denied the city of Tarpon Springs the right to be reimbursed for
legal fees incurred while being sued by the foundation that operates Helen
Ellis Memorial Hospital.

In asking to be reimbursed, the city's brief said the Tarpon Springs  Hospital
Foundation started the lawsuit, so it should pay.

The city, which leases the hospital to the foundation, also says the lease
requires the foundation to pay the city for such expenses, the motion stated.

Pinellas County Circuit Judge Crockett Farnell declined to make such a  ruling
Thursday.

The lawsuit itself was brought to clarify issues about legal fees at a  trial.

The foundation sued to force the city to pay for legal fees incurred by the
hospital during the debate over whether the city should sell the hospital last
year.

The preparation for that case is under way.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1996

CORRECTION:
 A headline in Saturday's Times incorrectly stated that Tarpon Springs had lost
a lawsuit over legal fees. The Health Facilities Authority, a city-appointed
board being sued by the foundation that operates Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital,
lost a motion asking to be reimbursed for legal fees incurred during the
lawsuit.

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              33 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                            July 12, 2000, Wednesday

Brain-death tests give doctors great leeway

BYLINE: Koichi Yasuda Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer ; Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 835 words


Tests to determine whether a patient at Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital was legally
brain-dead were conducted twice this month. Experts worry that the case could
call into question the validity of standards used to determine legal brain
death.

On July 3, Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital conducted the set of medical tests
stipulated by law to determine whether a teenage girl was legally brain-dead.

Among the required battery of tests conducted to determine whether the brain
stem--considered essential in maintaining life--had stopped functioning, one
revealed that certain functions were still intact. The doctors decided to
conduct another examination four days later, on the evening of July 7.

Another case in which doctors suspended tests for legal determination of brain
death occurred in June, at Fujita Gakuen Health University Hospital in Aichi
Prefecture.

The medical team at this hospital conducted the tests used to determine legal
brain death three times in three days. Only the last set of tests were
completed.

The first two rounds of tests were suspended, according to the hospital, because
a muscle relaxant that had been administered to the patient prior to the
diagnosis of brain-death was discovered to have remained in the patient's
system, resulting in possible inaccuracies in the test results.

According to the Organ Transplant Law, hospitals are required to examine
patients in five different areas--including whether the patient has been in a
deep coma--before the patient is pronounced brain-dead.

Clinical testing usually takes place prior to the legal examinations, and they
normally should use the same medical standards, excluding the test that checks
to see if the patient is able to breathe without the help of a respirator. For
example, both types of tests examine the reflexive function of the brain stem.

In the Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital case, there was a discrepancy in the results
of the clinical testing and the legal tests, concerning the coughing reflex
related to the brain stem.

This discrepancy has led many experts to question whether the clinical testing
for determining brain death is adequate.

Hideharu Karasawa, head of the neurosurgery department at Funabashi Municipal
Medical Center in Chiba Prefecture said, "It is extremely rare for brain
functions that were not confirmed in the clinical diagnosis to be confirmed in
legal tests."

"It could point to a lax diagnosis in the initial determination of brain death.
A detailed study of what occurred during the procedures is necessary," he said.

Because of failure to conclusively determine brain death after successive tests,
experts have raised various concerns, including fears about the gap that exists
between clinical diagnosis of brain death--which occurs on a daily basis in
hospitals to decide whether to use treatment to prolong life--and the legal
determination of brain death, for the purpose of carrying out organ transplants.

Prior to the enactment of the Organ Transplant Law three years ago, many
expressed concern that hospitals "experienced" in clinical brain-death
procedures may not necessarily be aware of how to carry out the legally required
testing.

While the Health and Welfare Ministry as well as the Japan Organ Transplant
Network both ultimately supported the two hospitals' decisions, placing too much
emphasis on the random clinical judgments of the doctors could lead to serious
errors in determining legal brain death.

Since the enactment of the law, there were thought to be problems in the legal
tests of five of the nine cases in which patients were declared legally
brain-dead.

The hospitals involved had not even been aware of the problems until they were
pointed out by a group of experts. The recent cases of successive tests having
to be carried out show that, if something is not done, future mistakes could
occur.

Danger signs are already surfacing. In the cases of Tokushukai and Fujita Gakuen
hospitals, the hospitals tried to cover up their failed attempts to determine
brain deaths--claiming they were not legal examinations--which created confusion
when the Japan Organ Transplant Network revealed that there in fact had been
such attempts to carry out legally required testing.

The Health and Welfare Ministry is of the same opinion as the network officials
that legal testing took place. In both cases, the network played a role in
obtaining approvals for organ transplants by the families of dying patients.

The ministry is of the view that if tests are conducted after the approval of
the patient's family is obtained, then they are considered legal examinations.

However, neither the ministry nor the network has taken concrete steps to
alleviate the problem, and they should be criticized for leaving too much to the
discretion of doctors.

They should work to make the determination of brain-death more transparent as
well as mandate that no life-and-death decisions should be made in ignorance of
the law.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Yomiuri Shimbun


                              34 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                            July 12, 2000, Wednesday

Brain-death tests give doctors great leeway

BYLINE: Koichi Yasuda Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer ; Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 835 words


Tests to determine whether a patient at Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital was legally
brain-dead were conducted twice this month. Experts worry that the case could
call into question the validity of standards used to determine legal brain
death.

On July 3, Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital conducted the set of medical tests
stipulated by law to determine whether a teenage girl was legally brain-dead.

Among the required battery of tests conducted to determine whether the brain
stem--considered essential in maintaining life--had stopped functioning, one
revealed that certain functions were still intact. The doctors decided to
conduct another examination four days later, on the evening of July 7.

Another case in which doctors suspended tests for legal determination of brain
death occurred in June, at Fujita Gakuen Health University Hospital in Aichi
Prefecture.

The medical team at this hospital conducted the tests used to determine legal
brain death three times in three days. Only the last set of tests were
completed.

The first two rounds of tests were suspended, according to the hospital, because
a muscle relaxant that had been administered to the patient prior to the
diagnosis of brain-death was discovered to have remained in the patient's
system, resulting in possible inaccuracies in the test results.

According to the Organ Transplant Law, hospitals are required to examine
patients in five different areas--including whether the patient has been in a
deep coma--before the patient is pronounced brain-dead.

Clinical testing usually takes place prior to the legal examinations, and they
normally should use the same medical standards, excluding the test that checks
to see if the patient is able to breathe without the help of a respirator. For
example, both types of tests examine the reflexive function of the brain stem.

In the Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital case, there was a discrepancy in the results
of the clinical testing and the legal tests, concerning the coughing reflex
related to the brain stem.

This discrepancy has led many experts to question whether the clinical testing
for determining brain death is adequate.

Hideharu Karasawa, head of the neurosurgery department at Funabashi Municipal
Medical Center in Chiba Prefecture said, "It is extremely rare for brain
functions that were not confirmed in the clinical diagnosis to be confirmed in
legal tests."

"It could point to a lax diagnosis in the initial determination of brain death.
A detailed study of what occurred during the procedures is necessary," he said.

Because of failure to conclusively determine brain death after successive tests,
experts have raised various concerns, including fears about the gap that exists
between clinical diagnosis of brain death--which occurs on a daily basis in
hospitals to decide whether to use treatment to prolong life--and the legal
determination of brain death, for the purpose of carrying out organ transplants.

Prior to the enactment of the Organ Transplant Law three years ago, many
expressed concern that hospitals "experienced" in clinical brain-death
procedures may not necessarily be aware of how to carry out the legally required
testing.

While the Health and Welfare Ministry as well as the Japan Organ Transplant
Network both ultimately supported the two hospitals' decisions, placing too much
emphasis on the random clinical judgments of the doctors could lead to serious
errors in determining legal brain death.

Since the enactment of the law, there were thought to be problems in the legal
tests of five of the nine cases in which patients were declared legally
brain-dead.

The hospitals involved had not even been aware of the problems until they were
pointed out by a group of experts. The recent cases of successive tests having
to be carried out show that, if something is not done, future mistakes could
occur.

Danger signs are already surfacing. In the cases of Tokushukai and Fujita Gakuen
hospitals, the hospitals tried to cover up their failed attempts to determine
brain deaths--claiming they were not legal examinations--which created confusion
when the Japan Organ Transplant Network revealed that there in fact had been
such attempts to carry out legally required testing.

The Health and Welfare Ministry is of the same opinion as the network officials
that legal testing took place. In both cases, the network played a role in
obtaining approvals for organ transplants by the families of dying patients.

The ministry is of the view that if tests are conducted after the approval of
the patient's family is obtained, then they are considered legal examinations.

However, neither the ministry nor the network has taken concrete steps to
alleviate the problem, and they should be criticized for leaving too much to the
discretion of doctors.

They should work to make the determination of brain-death more transparent as
well as mandate that no life-and-death decisions should be made in ignorance of
the law.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Yomiuri Shimbun


                              35 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Gauteng's R881mâ[#x20ac]¨legal bill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1026 words


EARLIER this week, DA chief whip of the Gauteng Provincial Legislature Mike
Moriarty revealed that through consolidation of all government departments'
annual reports, the province has spent R881â[#x20ac][0/00]million in legal fees
- almost double that of the previous year, which totalled R469m.

"The biggest spender is the Department of Health, (DOH) whose legal costs
increased from R238mto R569m," said Moriarty, who placed the blame on Gauteng
Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, labelling her as "callous".

DA Gauteng spokesman for Health Jack Bloom also attacked Mahlangu's conduct that
same day, particularly in dealing with negligence claims.

"Her department is expected to pay out about R1â[#x20ac][0/00]billion this year
in settlement of medical negligence cases," he said.

The Department of Education was next on the list in terms of legal fee spending.
A total of R42m went on legal fees and services - up from R27m.

Also coming up as a big spender on legal fees was the infrastructure development
department, which incurred R46m in legal fees.

"Excessive legal claims and legal fees are a natural consequence of an uncaring
and inefficient government that forces citizens and suppliers to take legal
action.

"As a result, Gauteng's most vulnerable, the poor and unemployed are being
penalised by delayed service delivery due to budgetary constraints," said
â[#x20ac]¨Moriarty.

He blamed Gauteng Premier David Makhura and the ANC government for spending
millions on billboards claiming clean audits in Gauteng, which he described as a
"smokescreen to cover up the reality that the provincial government is still not
delivering".

However, in a comprehensive response to questions by The Star, sister newspaper
of the Pretoria News, the Gauteng Provincial Government (GPG) has explained why,
in particular, the Department of Health has incurred such costs.

"It is clear from our own analysis the departments such as Education, Health,
the Police and others account for the bulk of legal claims against government as
they are at the coalface of government service delivery.

"It is important for us to pay particular attention to the Health Department as
it accounts for over 50% of the claims against government in Gauteng," the
statement began.

According to the GPG, this stems from the fact that Gauteng runs the biggest
public health care system in the entire SADC region. The province services
patients from Gauteng, as well as adjacent provinces (Free State, North West,
Limpopo, and Mpumalanga), at both a primary, tertiary and central level.

The province also hosts the highest number of central hospitals - four in the
entire country, including Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, Charlotte Maxeke
Johannesburg Academic hospital, Steve Biko Academic Hospital and George Mukhari
Academic Hospital.

These are then supported by three tertiary hospitals, Helen Joseph, Kalafong and
Tembisa Hospitals.

According to GPG, these hospitals service 7.1 million patients annually, as
opposed to the 6 million in KwaZulu-Natal, 3 million in the Eastern Cape and 2
million in the Western Cape.

Because Gauteng remains the country's economic hub, it attracts people searching
for better lives, and according to Stats SA, an average of 200â[#x20ac][0/00]000
people migrate into Gauteng and 70% of these are serviced by the public
healthcare system.

The GPG said that the Department of Health had a total of 67â[#x20ac][0/00]000
employees, with a current budget of R37â[#x20ac][0/00]billion.

According to the GPG's analysis, the reason for such major spending on legal
fees within the DOH is because of litigation against the department, the
majority of which comes from tertiary and central hospitals.

"These hospitals deal mainly with complicated and severe â[#x20ac]¨ailments.

"For example, hospitals such as Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, has to deal
with complicated pregnancies referred to them by surrounding clinics.

"Tembisa hospital and Charlotte Maxeke Hospital also deal with a lot of
referrals," the GPG statement read.

Globally, the three main sources of litigation in the health care sector are
negligence, malpractice, and adverse events.

According to provincial government, the main areas of litigation include
obstetrics and gynaecology; neuro-surgery; neonatology; and, orthopaedic
surgery.

"The sheer size and shape of our public health system partly explains the high
number of cases against Gauteng.

"In addition and like any other public health system in the world, we also have
incidents of malpractice, negligence and adverse events," the GPG said.

To combat this, the government has vowed in its statement to strengthen its
human resource capacity as it tries to fill all vacant posts and appoint
competent, qualified health professionals.

One particular way to improve these appointments is expected to emerge from a
local partnership with the University of Lancaster to train hospital chief
executives in management and leadership.

The DOH has claimed it is also dealing with incidents of crime, corruption and
collusion within its ranks that have led to legal fee cost increases.

"We have evidence of instances where files are stolen in order to expose the
department to litigation.

"Some of the incidents of stealing of files is done in collusion with our
officials. In cases we find this we do not hesitate to act," the GPG said.

Last month, two members of a syndicate involved in the theft of files at Chris
Hani Baragwanath hospital were arrested.

The GPG believes that this syndicate also has involved law firms and hospital
staff to commit its crimes.

"The modus operandi of some of the syndicates is to target areas such as
cerebral palsy, head injuries, and spine injuries.

"In these cases the lawyers will then calculate future medical care, housing,
special education and contingency fees.

"There is also the distortion of the market for legal services by inflating fees
when dealing with government," GPG said.

"The government is taking practical steps to reduce legal spending through
training and retaining skilled personnel, acting decisively where incidents of
negligence are found, mediation of cases wherever possible, and an establishment
of a Medico-Legal Centre that will systematically co-ordinate work related to
legal claims."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 4, 1995, Tuesday, City Edition

Hospital feud costs city big bucks

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: CITY TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



   This city's battle over its community hospital hasn't been cheap.

Since February, the city has spent more than $ 82,000 for almost 500 hours  of
work from the Tampa law firm it hired to sort through the details of a
controversial partnership deal between Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital and
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp., the nation's largest hospital chain.

About half a dozen lawyers from the firm Honigman, Miller, Schwartz and  Cohn
charged between $ 125 and $ 260 an hour for their work, which included
everything from research and telephone calls to writing letters and talking to
a newspaper reporter.

The hospital's legal fees in the conflict are even higher, administrator  Joseph
Kiefer said.

The city's questioning and delays over the deal cost the hospital more  than $
100,000 in additional legal fees, he said. But he could not say what the
hospital's total legal bills would be.

"Obviously, we'd rather be spending it on other things," Kiefer said.

The city also paid almost $ 6,000 in advertising costs to three local
newspapers - including the St. Petersburg Times - to publish open letters from
City Manager Costa Vatikiotis scrutinizing the deal.

Vatikiotis said the full-page ads were the only way to let residents know  what
was happening.

"We were the source of information about this proposed affiliation, not  the
hospital," he said.

The hospital published ads of its own, but fewer than the city did.

Ultimately, for some at the city, the expense was worth it because it meant
fending off the corporate giant officials feared would gobble up their local
hospital in a questionable deal.

"I would say that $ 80,000 was some of the best money we spent,"  Commissioner
Dudley Salley said.

Mayor Anita Protos agreed.

"What the city has spent is nothing because when you think what could have
happened, we could have really lost," she said.

Commissioners were confronted late last year with a partnership deal the
hospital had struck with Columbia without input from the city, which owns the
hospital land and buildings.

Helen Ellis officials wanted commissioners to send their deal to the  ballot.
That was necessary because the change would end the hospital's  non-profit
status, requiring a change in the hospital's lease with the city.

But commissioners were skeptical of the deal and wanted a closer look at  it.

That's why, in February, they hired special attorney Barbara Pankau,  instead of
relying on City Attorney Herb Elliott.

"The city attorney is not well versed in the healthcare industry,"  Commissioner
Karen Brayboy said.

Work by Pankau and her firm helped city officials unearth, and question,  fine
points of the deal.

"I think had we not spent the money, there were a lot of things we may  have not
been aware of," Brayboy said.

Vatikiotis said the city had to turn to expert help because the hospital  wanted
quick action on its deal.

The commission ultimately harpooned the hospital's deal in April when it
refused to set a referendum.

Commissioner Cindy Domino said commissioners should have set the referendum  and
saved the legal fees.

"It would have ended," she said. "We wouldn't have had to go through the  rest
of this nonsense."

The $ 82,000 the city has so far spent on Pankau's firm almost rivals the  $
104,626 the city paid in total legal bills during fiscal year 1994, according
to finance records.

Vatikiotis said he had estimated from the start that legal bills would  range
between $ 50,000 and $ 100,000.

The city, which has saved money on salaries and has some reserve funds, can
afford to pay the bills, he said.

Since the dispute over the deal began about six months ago, the feud  between
city and hospital leaders has expanded to include what role the city  should
play in hospital governance.

Domino has been critical that that, too, has cost the city money in legal  fees.

"This is something that could have been solved from Day One without all  this
nonsense by just being more open-minded and not letting attitudes and  egos get
in the way," she said.

Vatikiotis said Pankau's involvement with the city is winding down, but she
will likely be consulted in the future.

"I'm sure she'll be there as long as we need her," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; City Manager Costa Vatikiotis

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


                              37 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       July 3, 1995, Monday, City Edition

Hospital feud costs big bucks

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



This city's battle over its community hospital hasn't been cheap.

Since February, the city has spent more than $ 82,000 for almost 500 hours  of
work from the Tampa law firm it hired to sort through the details of a
controversial partnership deal between Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital and
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp., the nation's largest hospital chain.

About half a dozen lawyers from the firm Honigman, Miller, Schwartz and  Cohn
charged between $ 125 and $ 260 an hour for their work, which included
everything from research and telephone calls to writing letters and talking to
a newspaper reporter.

The hospital's legal fees in the conflict are even higher, administrator  Joseph
Kiefer said.

The city's questioning and delays over the deal cost the hospital more  than $
100,000 in additional legal fees, he said. But he could not say what the
hospital's total legal bills would be.

"Obviously, we'd rather be spending it on other things," Kiefer said.

The city also paid almost $ 6,000 in advertising costs to three local
newspapers - including the St. Petersburg Times - to publish open letters from
City Manager Costa Vatikiotis scrutinizing the deal.

Vatikiotis said the full-page ads were the only way to let residents know  what
was happening.

"We were the source of information about this proposed affiliation, not  the
hospital," he said.

The hospital published ads of its own, but fewer than the city did.

Ultimately, for some at the city, the expense was worth it because it meant
fending off the corporate giant officials feared would gobble up their local
hospital in a questionable deal.

"I would say that $ 80,000 was some of the best money we spent,"  Commissioner
Dudley Salley said.

Mayor Anita Protos agreed.

"What the city has spent is nothing because when you think what could have
happened, we could have really lost," she said.

Commissioners were confronted late last year with a partnership deal the
hospital had struck with Columbia without input from the city, which owns the
hospital land and buildings.

Helen Ellis officials wanted commissioners to send their deal to the  ballot.
That was necessary because the change would end the hospital's  non-profit
status, requiring a change in the hospital's lease with the city.

But commissioners were skeptical of the deal and wanted a closer look at  it.

That's why, in February, they hired special attorney Barbara Pankau,  instead of
relying on City Attorney Herb Elliott.

"The city attorney is not well versed in the healthcare industry,"  Commissioner
Karen Brayboy said.

Work by Pankau and her firm helped city officials unearth, and question,  fine
points of the deal.

"I think had we not spent the money, there were a lot of things we may  have not
been aware of," Brayboy said.

Vatikiotis said the city had to turn to expert help because the hospital  wanted
quick action on its deal.

The commission ultimately harpooned the hospital's deal in April when it
refused to set a referendum.

Commissioner Cindy Domino said commissioners should have set the referendum  and
saved the legal fees.

"It would have ended," she said. "We wouldn't have had to go through the  rest
of this nonsense."

The $ 82,000 the city has so far spent on Pankau's firm almost rivals the  $
104,626 the city paid in total legal bills during fiscal year 1994, according
to finance records.

Vatikiotis said he had estimated from the start that legal bills would  range
between $ 50,000 and $ 100,000.

The city, which has saved money on salaries and has some reserve funds, can
afford to pay the bills, he said.

Since the dispute over the deal began about six months ago, the feud  between
city and hospital leaders has expanded to include what role the city  should
play in hospital governance.

Domino has been critical that that, too, has cost the city money in legal  fees.

"This is something that could have been solved from Day One without all  this
nonsense by just being more open-minded and not letting attitudes and  egos get
in the way," she said.

Vatikiotis said Pankau's involvement with the city is winding down, but she
will likely be consulted in the future.

"I'm sure she'll be there as long as we need her," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Joseph Kiefer; Costa Vatikiotis

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


                              38 of 993 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

Hoke board's resolution seeks end to legal appeals on hospital projects

BYLINE: Jennifer Calhoun, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


July 06--RAEFORD -- The Hoke County Board of Commissioners on Tuesday night
asked Cape Fear Valley Health System to drop legal appeals against FirstHealth
of the Carolinas and start building a hospital.

The request was made in the form of a resolution that passed unanimously by the
five-member board.

The resolution was a reaction to Cape Fear Valley's recent refusal to drop legal
appeals against FirstHealth of the Carolinas, which has effectively delayed
construction of two hospitals in the county.

Both health systems have received permission from the state to build hospitals
in Raeford, and both have blocked the other from building through legal appeals.

Last month, however, FirstHealth offered to drop its appeals against Cape Fear
Valley and begin building its proposed eight-bed hospital in the county, if Cape
Fear Valley would do the same and start construction on its 41-bed hospital.

Cape Fear Valley officials refused the offer, saying the FirstHealth hospital
would not fit the needs of the county's residents.

The board's resolution negated Cape Fear Valley's argument, saying the appeals
could delay construction of a hospital in the county for years.

The resolution went on to say that Cape Fear Valley was "unreasonably blocking
the progress of improving the state of health care for the citizens of Hoke
County."

The board passed the resolution without comment.

Chairman Tony Hunt, who had called officials from the two health systems
together on June 20 to discuss the hospital situation, said residents have been
asking when the hospitals would be built.

"We're just sick and tired of all the legal maneuvering," Hunt said, during the
June 20 meeting.

Staff writer Jennifer Calhoun can be reached at calhounj@fayobserver.com or
486-3595.

To see more of The Fayetteville Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.fayettevillenc.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Fayetteville
Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110706-FY-Hoke-board-s-resolution-seeks-end-to-legal-appeals-on-
hospital-projects-0706-20110706

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2011 The Fayetteville Observer


                              39 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday

Fired legal counsel for Luis sues hospital, CEO

LENGTH: 1662  words


Luis Hospital's former legal counsel - fired abruptly by Chief Executive Officer
Dr. Kendall Griffith on July 15 - is now suing the hospital, alleging that she
was terminated in retaliation for being a whistleblower.
Royette Russell, who had represented the hospital since June 2008, filed the
lawsuit against Luis Hospital and Griffith, in his professional and personal
capacities, in federal court on Wednesday.


Unfortunately, Kendall Griffith is a wonderful human being, but he should not be
running the hospital, said Lee Rohn, who is Russell's attorney. The problems
that came out and caused the crisis from CMS are the exact same problems that
Royette Russell as legal counsel for the board and hospital was telling him he
could not continue to do without getting decertification.
In addition, Russell is alleging in the 14-page complaint that the hospital
discriminated against her on the basis of her sex, in violation of federal and
local laws. The lawsuit also contends that the hospital and Griffith defamed and
slandered Russell and that they violated their duty of good faith and fair
dealing.
Russell is seeking unspecified damages, including punitive damages against
Griffith.
Griffith did not return multiple messages from The Daily News on Thursday
seeking comment about the lawsuit.
Thursday night, Griffith's executive assistant, Keith James, sent a message
saying Since Dr. Griffith is not in receipt of a copy of the document referenced
in your message this afternoon, he is not a position to comment on it at this
time.
CMS
Russell's firing came less than two weeks before the U.S. Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, or CMS, conducted an inspection of the hospital from July
28 to Aug. 1.
Because of the findings from that inspection and because of the hospital's
previous, repeated inability to meet the standards in Medicare's Conditions of
Participation, CMS was on the brink of decertifying the hospital on Oct. 9.
CMS wound up granting a reprieve, though, postponing the decertification date to
Nov. 20 to give the hospital and the local government time to develop a systems
improvement agreement. If that agreement is executed by Nov. 20, the hospital
would have nine more months to implement the improvements.
At some point toward the end of that period, CMS will conduct a last-chance
survey.
The federal agency granted the reprieve a few days after Griffith and Luis
Hospital board chairman Anthony Ricketts, along with lawyer Deborah Gardner, who
the hospital retained to represent it in dealings with CMS, traveled to
Baltimore to meet with CMS officials and plead their case.  Lawsuit
Russell's lawsuit contends that Griffith discriminated against Russell because
she is a woman and that he created an extremely hostile work environment for
her.
It started with his refusing to treat her opinions or proposals with the respect
they were due and to be offended unless she agreed with virtually everything he
said, the lawsuit states.
Russell's lawsuit goes on to say that she began noticing how Griffith treated
her compared with how he treated male employees in the fall of 2013, and she
contends that her work environment became progressively more hostile as she
continued to proffer legal advice to Griffith.
The more plaintiff suggested that Griffith's course of action had legal flaws,
the more angry and hostile and rude he became towards plaintiff and the more
hostile the work environment became, the lawsuit says.
Russell contends she complained to Ricketts and to Chief Nursing Officer Justa
Encarnacion, but no real action was taken to stop the problem.
In addition, plaintiff was making valid complaints about how the hospital was
being run and pointing out that the actions being taken would result in legal or
regulatory actions against the hospital, the lawsuit contends. It characterizes
Russell as the de facto compliance officer for the hospital and says she had a
duty to receive and report complaints of wrongdoing.
Problems
The lawsuit lists a number of concerns that Russell says she brought up to
Griffith repeatedly until March 15 with no results, including:
- Failure to properly hire and fire persons.
- Failure to properly process hiring information.
- Failure to properly determine employees' pay.
- Apparent favoritism as to some employees over others.
- Not properly reporting matters and failure to follow procedures. It did not
say what those matters were.
Plaintiff made it clear that if Dr. Griffith did not cease the improper actions
they would have to be reported, the lawsuit states.
It also alleges that Griffith retaliated against Russell, refusing to meet with
her and removing her job responsibilities to oversee a number of departments.
March memo
The lawsuit also refers to a March 20 memo in which Russell says she pointed out
to Griffith multiple concerns she had as legal counsel and as de facto
compliance officer.
In the memo, according to the lawsuit, Russell made it clear that those problems
needed to be addressed or she was obligated to take action.
According to the lawsuit, the problems Russell mentioned in the memo included:
- That Griffith was allowing time and attendance to be abused and allowing a
hospital official to be paid regular pay while not coming to work, a violation
of hospital policy. Russell advised that the official should apply for sick
leave and had already pointed out this information previously, according to the
lawsuit.
- That a high-ranking doctor was being allowed to collect sick pay even though
he had resigned and as such was not eligible for sick pay.
- Irregularities in hiring and firing, including not having all employees go
through the same basic process regarding compensation based on competencies, and
salaries being changed without proper justification which could put the hospital
in problems with or the loss of CMS benefits.
- That Griffith was allowing employees to work without signed contracts, and
Russell had gone to Human Resources about the problem.
- A failure to check on the actual qualifications of one of the higher-level
managers in a non-medical position.
- That employees were being laid-off and called back without proper vetting with
the finance department while vendors continue to be owed more than $50 million.

In the memo, Russell explained to Dr. Griffith that her actual client was the
hospital and as such she was required to take action against Dr. Griffith for
improper actions if necessary, the lawsuit said. She reminded Dr. Griffith of
what had happened at the Roy Lester Schneider Hospital when the CEO, Miller, had
been allowed unfettered power.
The lawsuit states that Griffith was visibly shaking when he saw the memo but
never responded to it and refused to discuss it with the Plaintiff nor correct
the failure to investigate malpractice complaints or to stop improperly hiring
physicians without the proper credentials.
Among a multitude of problems that CMS pointed out in its inspection report were
that six physicians received temporary privileges and were improperly allowed to
practice medicine by Griffith, the interim chief medical officer and the chief
of service without being approved by the territorial hospital board.
The CMS report also found that while the territorial hospital board was
ineffective and did not exercise proper oversight, the board also was unaware of
certain quality of care issues because no one reported those issues to the
board.
Legal advice
Russell's lawsuit alleges that Griffith became more hostile toward Russell and
instructed staff not to consult with her for legal advice on at least two
occasions, including the issue of the dead baby that the press was inquiring
about and which the failure to properly investigate was a CMS violation.
The CMS report noted that in April, hospital staff threw out the remains of a
22-week-old fetus, either in the laundry or rubbish, and the hospital's
investigation was unable to determine the final disposition of the fetal
remains.
Russell's lawsuit also alleges that Griffith ignored her counsel, which resulted
in him mishandling the issue of whether or not to suspend Dr. Appleyard.
Dr. Deborah Appleyard is a physician specializing in spine and orthopedic care
and surgeries who was hired by Luis Hospital in August 2011. She has filed a
lawsuit that claims her complaints about others' failure to meet standards of
care led to her being harassed and ultimately suspended.
Russell's lawsuit contends that in relation to Appleyard, Russell advised that
Griffith was not following the proper procedures and would cause the hospital to
be sued.
The lawsuit alleges Griffith did not follow the advice, did not follow proper
procedures and suspended Appleyard, which has resulted in the hospital being
sued and incurring expenses.
Appleyard's lawsuit is pending.
Increasing tension
Russell's lawsuit describes increasing tension and an increasingly hostile
environment as time went on.
It mentions an incident in May, when Russell contends Griffith came into an
emergency executive manager meeting, stating that the board was meeting with the
governor that day. According to the lawsuit, Griffith said the governor told the
board that his legal counsel told him that the legal counsel for the hospital
had called the governor's legal counsel and threatened that if the contract for
financial consulting services was not signed she would embarrass the governor.
The lawsuit contends another hospital staff member actually had made the call
but that Griffith, without investigating, determined that plaintiff had done as
she had been accused of.
It also says that Russell continued to note noncompliance issues as to Dr.
Griffith including refusing to follow the procedures at the hospital that
operated as check and balances.
It also points to various issues that Russell contends showed discrimination
against her because she is a woman.
Ultimately, a little after 5 p.m. July 15, Grif 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         Blacktown Advocate (Australia)

                            June 29, 2016 Wednesday
                               Blacktown Edition

Free advice to patients helps lift legal stress

BYLINE: Jessica Oxford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 323  words


A one-stop shop for people with medical issues

FREE legal advice is now available for pregnant women and young mums at
Blacktown Hospital, a first for western Sydney.

The Health Justice Partnership between Legal Aid NSW and Western Sydney Health
District came into effect on June 21.

Senior family lawyer Ruth Pilkinton said the partnership was aimed at women in
need but was open to other patients and staff.

"Legal Aid gives free legal advice to patients on family law issues including
domestic violence, parenting, and care and protection issues," she said.

"The legal advice service is primarily available to women attending the
antenatal and maternity unit at Blacktown Hospital, but will also help other
inpatients, day patients, their family members and staff.

"People will be connected to a Legal Aid lawyer at the hospital to help them
resolve, or lessen, their legal issues and, where possible, prevent court
action.

"Research has shown that medical and legal issues are often linked; legal
problems can lead to stress and ill health, and long-term health problems often
also create legal issues." Blacktown Hospital social worker Anna Fainuu said it
would make it easier to address a person's overall wellbeing.

"That's the great thing about the partnership, it can feel like a one-stop shop
for people with medical issues," she said. "The hospital has support for mental
health and drug health and will now have legal services on site.

"When people are in hospital and have personal issues, they have so many
competing concerns and it can be quite overwhelming.

"These patients dealing with Family and Community Services were often from
marginalised communities with high socioeconomic disadvantage, so having ready
access to a legal service has greatly enhanced the support we're able to offer."
The Legal Aid lawyer will be present at Blacktown Hospital on Tuesdays and can
be contacted every day on 1800 551 589FREE LEGAL AID 1800 551 589

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Blacktown Advocate


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           January 27, 2016 Wednesday

31,823 cases reported in nine Medico-Legal Sections in 2015

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 27

LENGTH: 172  words


many as 31,823 cases were reported in nine Medico-Legal Sections of Karachi in
2015 including 18 exhumation and 2,459 postpartum cases.

According to the annual report issued by Police Surgeon Karachi, 31,823 cases
were reported in nine medico-legal sections of Karachi hospitals that include
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi, Abbasi Shaheed
Hospital, Sindh Government Lyari General Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital
Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Qatar Hospital
Orangi, Sindh Government Hospital Korangi and Sindh Government Hospital New
Karachi

About 31,823 medico-legal cases were registered in the city in 2015 where 28,460
ML cases, 2,459 postmortems and 18 exhumed were done in last year.   The three
people were injured due to human-bite, 692 received burn injuries, 289 sexually
assault and 403 had become victims of sexual assault.

Report further stated that 904 people died during treatment in three medico-
legal sections while 6,357 consumed poisonous substance.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 13, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

State Opposes Plan to House The Homeless in Hospitals

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 810 words


The State Department of Health said yesterday that it would oppose New York
City's plan to temporarily house the homeless in two public hospitals, even as
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani defended the proposal.

A City Council ordinance now bans the city from letting families seeking shelter
sleep at the Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx, and the city is under court
order to comply. The city currently sends most families from the unit to a
shelter in the Bronx, but in August, when temperatures rise, children are still
out of school and cramped apartments become harder to bear, the number of
families needing shelter rises.

City officials had said on Wednesday that they could begin placing homeless
families overnight at North Central Bronx Hospital as early as Friday, and at
Harlem Hospital Center at a later date, to alleviate overflow from the unit.

But without approval from the state, which certifies municipal hospitals and
must approve any substantive change in their use, it is not clear that the city
can legally go ahead with the plan.

The Legal Aid Society, which monitors the city's handling of the homeless under
a long-running court case, said on Wednesday that it would sue the city if it
tried to place homeless families at the hospitals. Yesterday, the city agreed,
in a phone conference with a court-appointed special master and Legal Aid, that
it would first seek to place couples without children and single pregnant women
at the hospitals. Susan Wiviott, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeless
Services, said the department would still place families at the hospitals if the
need arose.

Kristine Smith, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Health, said yesterday
that "from a public health standpoint the proposal is not something we can
support."

"We will not approve the proposal to house homeless individuals at North Central
Bronx and Harlem Hospitals," she said.

City officials said they had no comment on the state's position. But Mayor
Giuliani defended the plan yesterday, and suggested that "limousine liberalism"
was driving its opponents. "The fact is that the hospital is underutilized, and
the city has to find places for the people that are homeless, it's under court
order to do that," he said. "And that's as good a place as any if it's being
underutilized."

He continued, "It's decent, it's habitable, it's probably better than the space
that you have available in certain other shelters, even if they are privately
run."

There has been growing concern among community leaders about the city's plans
for both hospitals, and North Central Bronx in particular. The Health and
Hospitals Corporation has been gradually reducing services at the hospital and
diverting patients to Jacobi Medical Center. The homeless families were to be
housed in what used to be a 25-bed rehabilitation unit.

City officials have said the hospital's patient population is dwindling because
of managed care and other changes in health care. But community leaders and
elected officials say they believe the city is deliberately shrinking the
hospital's services so that it can be closed and sold to Montefiore Medical
Center, which is next door. At Harlem Hospital Center, the patient base has also
been dwindling, and the city has made simultaneous cutbacks.

"Folks in the Harlem community are going to be concerned that this is one more
step in closing down Harlem Hospital," said Lisa Daglian, a spokeswoman for the
Manhattan Borough President, C. Virginia Fields.

On Tuesday, the City Council's Health Committee held a hearing on the future of
North Central Bronx. Yesterday, the chairman of the committee, Victor Robles,
expressed outrage that no city official had mentioned the plan to house the
homeless at the hospital. He said he planned to summon Dr. Luis Marcos, the
president of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, back to the committee
in September.

"The man lied to me, the man lied to my committee," Mr. Robles said. "I won't
tolerate it."

Mr. Robles, Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, and Councilwoman June
Eisland also released a copy of a letter, dated Aug. 6, from the North Bronx
Healthcare Network, the division of the corporation that administers North
Central Bronx, to the State Department of Health requesting approval for placing
homeless families there.

The letter says that the Department of Homeless Services intends to shelter
approximately 15 families -- a maximum of 45 people -- each night at the
hospital, that it will staff the unit with two "peace officers" and an
administrator, and that "families will not have access to any other areas within
the hospital."

The letter also urges the state to expedite its review of the plan. But hospital
employees said no work had been done to prepare the rehabilitation unit to house
families.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Tribune (Elkin, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 29, 2015 Friday

Legal drama escalates over hospital

BYLINE: Karen Holbrook, The Tribune, Elkin, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 795 words


May 29--More legal drama is taking place over the Yadkin County hospitals as the
Yadkin County government announced that the HMC/CAH Acquisition Company filed a
motion that will prolong the resolution in the wrongful closure case against
Yadkin Valley Community Hospital.

In a press release Friday, Yadkin County announced that it had just learned that
the operator of the Yadkin Valley Community Hospital filed a motion and
transferred the lawsuit the County filed against HMC/CAH Acquisition Company 10,
LLC d/b/a Yadkin Valley Community Hospital (CAH) to federal court, which will
mean there will be no opportunity for a quick resolution by the Court to the
wrongful closure of the hospital.

County Attorney Edward L. Powell said, "This is nothing but a stalling and delay
tactic by CAH meant to harm the citizens of Yadkin County. These people have
stooped to a new low. Yadkin County is now going to take all measures necessary
to get CAH physically and legally out of our hospital at the earliest possible
moment and to work diligently to get a much better health care alternative
established for our citizens. If there were ever any doubt about the motives of
the hospital operator, this action clearly identifies the kind of folks we are
dealing with."

Earlier this week, Yadkin County and HCMH representatives met with the
leadership of the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services in
Raleigh to discuss the unauthorized closure of Yadkin Valley Community Hospital,
by former operators HMC/CAH on May 22.

NCDHHS Director Drexdal Pratt and his staff informed the group that they
understood all the facts surrounding the sudden unauthorized closure of the
hospital, and he informed Yadkin County that the Department of Health and Human
Services would do everything legally possible to facilitate health care delivery
in Yadkin County, according to a statement from Yadkin County officials Thursday
afternoon.

In the press release, the county officials asked for patience as the county and
state governments work together to find a resolution. "This transition will take
some time, and Yadkin County asks that its citizens be understanding of this,"
read the release.

A hearing in Wake County on Monday is the next step in the process. The county,
with the help of healthcare attorney Allyson Labban of Smith Moore Leatherwood,
will be pursuing continuing legal action against HMC at the hearing in Raleigh.
The county plans to pursue legal action and request that the temporary
restraining order obtained on May 22 be a permanent restraining order to hold
HMC accountable for its early closure of the hospital.

The hospital has been the topic of hot debate in recent months. Despite legal
action on behalf of the county, the hospital shut down May 22. Since February,
the county has been in negotiations to find a new company to operate the
county-owned hospital building. When that failed, the county reentered
negotiations with the operator, HMC/CAH, but those negotiations also fell
through. After learning that HMC planned to shut down the hospital over the
weekend rather than fulfill its duty to remain open through its lease term which
ends July 31, the county took legal action to prevent the shutdown, but to no
avail.

During the opening session at an emergency meeting held by Yadkin County
commissioners Tuesday, County Manager Lisa Hughes read aloud from documentation
describing the county's ongoing financial difficulties with HMC. As part of the
original lease agreement with HMC, the group was to purchase land within two
years and build a new facility within four years, but in October of 2011, the
group filed for bankruptcy. Though the hospital remained open throughout the
bankruptcy proceedings, they were no longer able to pay rent to the county for
use of the hospital building. The county amended the lease with HMC several
times, no longer charging the group rent in exchange for using parts of the
facility for a county EMS center and health department clinic.

According to information presented to community members who serve on the
hospital's board, HMC has been able to turn around its financial losses and the
company has been making a profit, though they continued to use the county-owned
building rent-free. As the lease term was set to expire in April, the county
began discussing alternative options and began a Request for Proposal (RFP)
process in order to find another hospital organization to operate the facility.
During the RFP process, the county did enter a new lease agreement with HMC
allowing it to operate the hospital until July 31 while attempting to find a new
hospital operator.

___ (c)2015 The Tribune (Elkin, N.C.) Visit The Tribune (Elkin, N.C.) at
elkintribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150529-VN-Legal-drama-escalates-over-hospital-0529-20150529

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VN


                           Copyright 2015 The Tribune


                              44 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            March 7, 1998, Saturday

Hospital lease fears Legal alert on plan at Queen Alex

BYLINE: Matthew Rogers

LENGTH: 376 words


STATE Government plans to allow private health services at the Queen

Alexandra Hospital could become a complex legal minefield.

Private hospitals whose bids to lease space in the hospital are

rejected could launch legal action against the State Government,

documents obtained by The Mercury reveal.

Legal advice provided to the Tasmanian Private Hospitals Association

reckons unsuccessful bidders could seek a Supreme Court order to set

aside Health Minister Peter McKay's decision to grant a licence to the

successful tenderer.

The advice suggests the successful bidder for a leasehold on the top

three floors of the Queen Alexandra is likely to have a significant

market advantage through on-site access to facilities at the Royal

Hobart Hospital.

It says the three major private hospitals in southern Tasmania _ St

Helens, St Johns and Calvary _ all stand to have their profitability,

and possibly their viability, threatened if they are not the

successful tenderer, which could be granted additional private bed

licences.

Under the Hospitals Act it is also possible the minister's motives for

awarding the licence to a private operator could be questioned.

The Act states that, in considering a licence application, the

minister must take into account whether there are already adequate

health care facilities for the present and future health care needs of

the area.

If any concerns that his decision was instead based on obtaining the

best price for the Government could be proven, the decision could be

liable to be set aside by the court.

Private Hospitals Association president David Swan could not be

contacted to comment on the legal advice.

Royal Hobart chief executive John Dixon said the four short-listed

tenderers had all been advised to seek legal advice on the Hospitals

Act.

Mr Dixon said the Government's evaluation criteria had been widely

heralded and financial aspects were only one of the criteria.

"The service delivery factor is a larger component of the

evaluation," he said.

The Government expects to receive final proposals from the

short-listed tenderers, which all operate in Tasmania, on March 30.

An announcement on the successful bidder will be made at the end of

April.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1998 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              45 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          December 16, 1998, Wednesday

BIG TEAM EFFORT FOR HOSPITAL

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 211 words


BIRMINGHAM legal executives donned football shorts and shirts to raise more than
pounds 11,000 for the city's Diana, Princess of Wales Children's Hospital.

Members of the Institute of Legal Executives began fund-raising in July when
they took part in the institute's national five-a-side charity football
competition.

They handed over a giant cheque to children's hospital director Judge Estella
Hindley, QC, at the institute's Birmingham and District branch annual ball at
the Botanical Gardens, in Edgbaston. The money will be used to buy a new neo
-natal monitoringunit at the hospital.

Members of the Institute of Legal Executives are pictured (back, left to right)
Colin Short, Joyce Inscker, Keith Astbury, Gerard Fletcher and David Dill.
Front, Heather Lucas, Malcolm Faulkner (of the Children's Hospital) and Derek
larkin

The BIrmingham and District BRanch of the Institute of Legal executives are
pictured handing over a cheque for pounds 11,000 to the BIrmingham Childrens
Hospital this evening towards the neo-natal monitoring unit.

The group are back l to r: Colin Short,Joyce Inscker,Keith Astbury,Gerard
Fletcher,and David Dill.

Front l to r: are Heather Lucas, Malcolm Faulkner(Childrens Hospital rep), and
Derek Larkin.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              46 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                   Kansas City Daily Record (Kansas City, MO)

                           September 11, 2006 Monday

Suit against firm centers on conflict of interest

BYLINE: Donna Walter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 815  words


The St. Louis law firm of Sandberg, Phoenix & von Gontard says it will fight
allegations of fraud and legal malpractice filed by a doctor the law firm
represented 10 years ago.

The lawsuit alleges the firm had a conflict of interest it failed to disclose to
the doctor.

"The allegations in this amended petition are completely scandalous without
basis in fact and outrageous," said attorney Gerard T. Noce, a partner with
Burroughs, Hepler, Broom, MacDonald, Hebrank & True, who is representing
Sandberg, Phoenix & von Gontard.

Last summer, Dr. Keshav Joshi filed a legal malpractice claim against the SPvG
law firm and Jonathan Ries, the attorney who defended the anesthesiologist in
suspension proceedings brought by St. Luke's Hospital in 1996. Joshi's attorney,
Naren Chaganti, lodged an amended petition with the St. Louis Circuit Court on
Aug. 30.

But the amended petition is not part of the case, Noce said, because the court
hasn't granted the plaintiff leave to amend his petition.

The defense attorney said the amended petition was drafted in response to SPvG's
motion for summary judgment pending before the court. In the motion, filed in
July, Noce argued Joshi's lawsuit was barred by the five-year statute of
limitations for legal malpractice claims.

Rejecting the notion that the law firm would settle this case, Noce said, "We'll
try the case because (1) it should be barred by statute of limitations, and (2)
the facts of the case will support that our representation was not only
reasonable; it was outstanding. "

Chaganti asserts in the amended petition that SPvG "compromised plaintiff's
interests in favor of St. Luke's Hospital's interests in order to ingratiate
themselves to St. Luke's Hospital with the view to obtain future work from St.
Luke's Hospital. "

The law firm failed to disclose to Joshi that it represented two other hospitals
that were part of the Unity Health System, as was St. Luke's Hospital, and it
was marketing its services to St. Luke's Hospital, according to the amended
petition.

The claim against SpvG alleges internal memos support the allegation that the
law firm hid from Joshi a potential conflict of interest. In addition, the
plaintiff's lawyer alleged these memos were produced by SPvG during discovery
for the legal malpractice suit, and Joshi could not have known of the law firm's
alleged conflict of interest before production of the memos.

A Jan. 22, 1996, memo sent from Ries to the law firm's client committee states
he conferred with "KWB, PvG and KLP" - which match the initials for Kenneth W.
Bean, Peter von Gontard and Kathleen L. Pine - and they determined there was no
conflict of interest caused by SPvG's "client development initiatives" with the
Unity group. A computer check turned up "very dated matters" in which the firm
represented St. Luke's Hospital and another Unity hospital. Those matters "did
not really come close to rising to the level of a conflict situation," Ries
wrote in the memo.

Two days later, Bean sent Ries a memo discussing turmoil among the
anesthesiologists at St. Luke's Hospital. Bean said he represented Western
Anesthesiology Associates, which ran the anesthesiology department at a Unity
hospital. Bean ended the memo by saying he wasn't sure how the Ries'
representation of Joshi would impact Western Anesthesiology Associates, so he
wasn't sure he wanted Ries to tell him about the Western representation.

After Joshi's preliminary hearing in front of three St. Luke's doctors, Joshi
resigned from St. Luke's Hospital, stating in a letter he was doing so "in order
to proceed with a program of employment and professional development at the
University of Missouri. " The full hearing was canceled because Joshi's
resignation eliminated the need for it.

Joshi's lawsuit against SPvG alleges Ries and the hospital secretly agreed to
waive the full hearing with the knowledge that the waiver and Joshi's
resignation from the hospital would prevent Joshi from successfully suing the
hospital.

A memo Ries wrote for the case file on May 17, 1996, shows the hospital "lobbied
and negotiated" for a resolution that included Joshi's voluntary retirement. The
file memo shows Ries and Richard A. Wunderlich, the hospital's attorney, agreed
Joshi's voluntary resignation would "moot any need" for the full hearing. But
the memo also shows Ries objected to the hospital's request that Joshi fully
release the hospital from any claims.

If Joshi's lawsuit survives the law firm's motion for summary judgment, the
burden will be on him to show there was a substantial relationship between
SPvG's earlier representation of the hospital and its representation of Joshi,
according to Washington University law professor Peter Joy, who is known as an
expert in legal ethics.

"Coincidence alone isn't enough," he said.

This article was originally published in the St. Louis Daily Record, another
Dolan Media publication.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday

Civic chief has power to ban hospitals: Legal experts

BYLINE: Anjaya Anparthi

SECTION: NAGPUR

LENGTH: 223 words


NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has kicked off a lengthy process
to ban hospitals in Dhantoli and Ramdaspeth and a found simple solution already
under its belt. Legal experts have said that the civic chief already has powers
to not sanction hospitals or any type of buildings citing problems prevailing in
the respective areas.

Following public outcry and strong demand for blanket ban on new hospitals in
Dhantoli and Ramdaspeth, the NMC town planning department asked for legal advice
from a panel of advocates. NMC officials told TOI that according to the legal
advice obtained a couple of days ago, the municipal commissioner himself may
maintain ban on approving hospital buildings in Dhantoli and Ramdaspeth citing
strong opposition and too many hospitals in a small area. "The department will
submit the legal advice to municipal commissioner Shyam Wardhane for further
decision," he said.

The plan was to seek legal advice and submit it to mayor Anil Sole for framing
policy in the general body for the ban. Now, it will be interesting to see
whether the administration goes to the general body or issues any circular
imposing ban on new hospital buildings. The general body has already passed a
resolution not to permit new hospitals in the two localities till a policy is
framed.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                 The Morning Bulletin (Rockhampton, Queensland)

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

Legal action sought after birth

BYLINE:  Trinette Stevens

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 515  words



HIGHLIGHT: Parents employ law firm after daughter sustains brain damage

About the review

 There were four serious incidents during childbirths at the Rockhampton
Hospital in the past 12 months

One baby died

Three babies suffered serious injuries

The babies were transferred to Brisbane specialists due to the seriousness of
injuries

Each case was investigated

A PERSON'S first pregnancy is meant to be full of joy and anticipation, but for
one couple the process has reportedly ended in brain damage, a hospital review
and likely legal action.

One of the four families whose childbirth complications have been included in an
independent review of Rockhampton Hospital's maternity unit has sought legal
advice from law firm Maurice and Blackburn.

Details from the firm allege the couple's baby, who is suspected to have
cerebral palsy following a delivery at Rockhampton Hospital, was born not moving
or breathing on August 8 last year.

The birth reportedly followed several prior trips to the hospital as the mother
had high blood pressure, protein in her urine and was "puffy".

On August 3, it was discovered the baby wasn't moving very much and the decision
was made to induce the birth.

The mother was reportedly sent home at 2am and on August 8 eventually gave birth
to a baby girl, who did not breathe on her own for 45 minutes and had to be
resuscitated.

Maurice Blackburn's medical negligence principal Sarah Atkinson said the family
approached the practice for legal representation before the Rockhampton Hospital
began its investigations and review.

"The family felt strongly enough to seek legal advice and while we are still
investigating the case and obtaining specialist reports on the baby's medical
condition, we can't comment about what happened," she said.

"However at Maurice Blackburn we often find the root cause of many medical legal
cases is failed hospital processes and understaffing.

"At this stage this legal action should in no way be seen as a criticism of any
hospital staff, we just want to get to the bottom of what happened and prevent
it from happening again."

The baby girl was flown to Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital a day after her
birth, where Brisbane specialists placed her in the Intensive Care Unit and
"cooled" her for three days before warming her back up.

Cooling is the practice of placing babies on cold mats in order to reduce cell
death and any brain injury that may have occurred at birth.

The baby also started having seizures.

Brain scans were performed, confirming the baby had suffered brain damage and
specialists reportedly advised this had affected the baby's posture.

Ms Atkinson said the firm's interest was to ensure the family have the financial
means to provide for their child's ongoing care.

Meanwhile, Central Queensland Hospital and Health Service chief executive Len
Richards (pictured)said he supported the right of these families to engage legal
representation.

"The independent review will identify any improvements that can be made and we
will work with the families involved to let them know the findings," he said.
"Our aim is to build the best possible health-care service for Central
Queenslanders."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RMB


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Hospital documents show it contracted with DA's Office, not Walter Reed

LENGTH: 770  words


St. Tammany Parish Hospital produced proof late Friday in the form of board
resolutions that its arrangement with District Attorney Walter Reed to provide
legal advice at its board meetings was with the 22nd Judicial District
Attorney's Office and not, as Reed has asserted, with his private law practice.


A spokesman for Reed issued a statement Friday night saying Reed was under the
impression he was representing the hospital in a private capacity. The statement
also questioned the completeness of the hospital's files.
Reed resigned from his $30,000-a-year job with the hospital in late May, saying
he didn't want to create a distraction for the board of the private,
not-for-profit hospital.
But while Reed has claimed that during their more than 20-year relationship, he
did the work for the hospital as a private lawyer, hospital administrator Patti
Ellish has said the hospital's agreement was with the DA's Office and that Leo
Hemelt, an assistant district attorney, filled in for Reed when he couldn't
attend the board meetings.
According to sources, Hemelt has been subpoenaed by a federal grand jury, which
apparently is investigating Reed's campaign finance spending and his dealings
with the hospital.
The question of whether Reed's hospital work came under the umbrella of the
District Attorney's Office or not raised the possibility that he was enriching
himself personally from work that was essentially billed to taxpayers - much in
the way that former St. Tammany Parish Coroner Peter Galvan benefited from a
private contract to provide medical services to inmates at the Slidell jail, a
contract he satisfied by sending an employee of the Coroner's Office whose
salary was paid by the public. That side deal figured in Galvan's recent
indictment and guilty plea, which resulted in a two-year prison sentence.
For the first time Friday, the hospital acknowledged the federal investigation,
in a statement sent out by the public relations firm Deveney Communication.
"Various news reports have advanced the misconception that an absence of
contract or invoice equals the absence of an appropriate professional legal
service arrangement between our hospital and the District Attorney's Office,'
the statement said. "We have not shared this information earlier because we do
not want to impede an ongoing investigation.'
The statement said the hospital decided to release information showing that it
had appropriately negotiated and managed a professional services arrangement
between it and the DA's Office.  The evidence provided by the hospital consisted
of resolutions adopted by the hospital's governing board in 1992, 1994 and 2001
that approved a retainer to engage the District Attorney's Office for up to 333
hours of legal work. Compensation after that amount of time was to be at an
hourly rate. The retainer started out as $2,084 per month, going up to $2,247.75
in 1994 and up again to $2,500 per month in 2001. That amount remained in effect
for 13 years, the hospital said.
In 2009 the board began to approve fees for all its attorneys annually. "The
District Attorney's Office was approved as one of the legal counsels in 2009,
and each subsequent year, on a retainer basis, at the same rate of $2,500 a
month," the statement said.
"The executed professional services arrangement was proper, authorized by board
resolution, and the requested services were provided,' it said.
Morgan Stewart, a spokesman for Reed, issued this statement Friday night:
"In the mid-90s, the then chairman of the St. Tammany Parish Hospital board,
Paul Cortes, approached Walter Reed and suggested that the board wanted Mr. Reed
to personally perform legal representation services, instead of the personnel
being provided at that time from the District Attorney's Office. Walter Reed's
understanding of that arrangement was based on those conversations.
"The new board's view that Mr. Reed's participation was in his official capacity
as district attorney created an obvious misunderstanding and distraction to the
hospital management. When this misunderstanding became apparent, it became the
sole reason why Mr. Reed withdrew from the arrangement. He did not resign due to
misconduct of any kind.
"The fact is, trying to re-create documentation from two decades ago is very
difficult. As such, over the last few weeks, we also requested these documents
that the hospital decided to release tonight. That one of these key
'resolutions' was in a lawyer's file outside of the hospital records department
calls into question the completeness of the documentation from the hospital."
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             Corporate Legal Times

                                  April, 2005

BYLINE: BRUCE D. COLLINS; Bruce D. Collins is the corporate vice president and
general counsel of c-span.  E-mail: collins@c-span.org


SECTION: AT THE NON-PROFIT BAR; Bar; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 729 words


Poor Find Little Charity At Non-Profit Hospitals

JUST AS necessity is the mother of invention, outrage may inspire new legal
thinking.

The latest outrage is that charity hospitals around the country are charging
poor and uninsured patients their highest retail rates, while the insured_and
presumably better off patients_receive steep discounts for the same health care
services. Adding insult to the outrage are hospitals that use abusive collection
methods against those charity patients who can't pay on time, if at all. As the
hospitals run up legal collection costs, they tack those onto the bill as well.

You'd expect that kind of treatment from a loan shark, but a charity hospital?
Apparently things are so bad in this corner of the non-profit sector, plaintiffs
have filed more than 70 lawsuits against hospital groups in state and federal
courts, many of them led by famed tobacco class action lawyer Richard Scruggs.
According to the ABA Journal, however, basic contract theory has blunted the
legal attack on this outrage. Scruggs and his clients are trying to argue that
there is an implied contract between each charity hospital and the government in
which the hospitals have agreed to provide free or discounted service to the
poor in exchange for the advantages of tax exemption. But the American Hospital
Association's lawyer (and a former FTC attorney) Christine Varney was quoted
saying such implied contract theories will not "survive a nanosecond of judicial
scrutiny."

She may be legally correct, but does that make it right? The federal courts have
dismissed these contract theory cases on the grounds that a Section 501(c)(3)
tax exemption doesn't create a contract, and even if it did, it doesn't create a
right that private citizens can enforce with a lawsuit. A Colorado court even
ruled that the plaintiffs were wrong to assume the federal tax exemption
required charity hospitals to provide health care services to the indigent.

Huh? Courts have come up with many other ways to justify the exemption. A
Florida court thought the contract theory was so untenable it threatened to
impose Rule 11 sanctions against the plaintiffs for pursuing presumably
frivolous arguments. How is fairness frivolous?

So where does that leave the indigent and uninsured patients? They are in a
legal no man's land. They face liens and foreclosures because they can't pay the
charity hospitals, but the law says they don't have standing to sue. Yet those
with the right to sue_the IRS and the state attorneys general_haven't come to
their defense. Meanwhile, the so-called charity hospitals continue to enjoy
millions of dollars in tax exemptions while still charging premium rates to poor
people.

What to do? Some say reform the health care system, but that will take years.
Can't the law respond to a fundamental unfairness simply by reinterpreting
certain concepts to reflect the times? The authoritative English jurist Sir
Edward Coke thought so when he noted that "the law makes use of a fiction where
equity subsists." In other words (mine), "to be fair, let's pretend that
indigent patients can sue the charity hospitals." That was easy. It even makes
sense under the law of third party beneficiaries.

We now say that there is a contract made between a hospital and the state and
federal governments, and the bargain is made so that indigent, uninsured and
underinsured patients have access to free or discounted medical care. As the
intended beneficiaries of the contract, they have the right to enforce it by
going to court. The answer to the federal judge who asked, "Are you prepared to
let private citizens sue the Red Cross if they think the charity is not
complying with the tax code?" is "Yes" if the Red Cross starts charging fees for
disaster relief.

Outrageous conduct demands a determined response. Congress may respond, but not
any time soon. The IRS is missing in action. Even if every one of the state
attorneys general responded, the result would likely be uneven. In the meantime,
a little bit of Sir Coke's legal fictionalizing could jump-start a response to a
genuine outrage. Why not? If we're willing to accept the legal fiction that a
corporation such as Microsoft is a person just like you and me, then we should
be willing to accept a new legal fiction that charity hospitals should provide
charity care. 3

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                Copyright 2005 Corporate Legal Times Corporation


                              51 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             Corporate Legal Times

                                  April, 2005

BYLINE: BRUCE D. COLLINS; Bruce D. Collins is the corporate vice president and
general counsel of c-span.  E-mail: collins@c-span.org


SECTION: AT THE NON-PROFIT BAR; Bar; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 729 words


Poor Find Little Charity At Non-Profit Hospitals

JUST AS necessity is the mother of invention, outrage may inspire new legal
thinking.

The latest outrage is that charity hospitals around the country are charging
poor and uninsured patients their highest retail rates, while the insured_and
presumably better off patients_receive steep discounts for the same health care
services. Adding insult to the outrage are hospitals that use abusive collection
methods against those charity patients who can't pay on time, if at all. As the
hospitals run up legal collection costs, they tack those onto the bill as well.

You'd expect that kind of treatment from a loan shark, but a charity hospital?
Apparently things are so bad in this corner of the non-profit sector, plaintiffs
have filed more than 70 lawsuits against hospital groups in state and federal
courts, many of them led by famed tobacco class action lawyer Richard Scruggs.
According to the ABA Journal, however, basic contract theory has blunted the
legal attack on this outrage. Scruggs and his clients are trying to argue that
there is an implied contract between each charity hospital and the government in
which the hospitals have agreed to provide free or discounted service to the
poor in exchange for the advantages of tax exemption. But the American Hospital
Association's lawyer (and a former FTC attorney) Christine Varney was quoted
saying such implied contract theories will not "survive a nanosecond of judicial
scrutiny."

She may be legally correct, but does that make it right? The federal courts have
dismissed these contract theory cases on the grounds that a Section 501(c)(3)
tax exemption doesn't create a contract, and even if it did, it doesn't create a
right that private citizens can enforce with a lawsuit. A Colorado court even
ruled that the plaintiffs were wrong to assume the federal tax exemption
required charity hospitals to provide health care services to the indigent.

Huh? Courts have come up with many other ways to justify the exemption. A
Florida court thought the contract theory was so untenable it threatened to
impose Rule 11 sanctions against the plaintiffs for pursuing presumably
frivolous arguments. How is fairness frivolous?

So where does that leave the indigent and uninsured patients? They are in a
legal no man's land. They face liens and foreclosures because they can't pay the
charity hospitals, but the law says they don't have standing to sue. Yet those
with the right to sue_the IRS and the state attorneys general_haven't come to
their defense. Meanwhile, the so-called charity hospitals continue to enjoy
millions of dollars in tax exemptions while still charging premium rates to poor
people.

What to do? Some say reform the health care system, but that will take years.
Can't the law respond to a fundamental unfairness simply by reinterpreting
certain concepts to reflect the times? The authoritative English jurist Sir
Edward Coke thought so when he noted that "the law makes use of a fiction where
equity subsists." In other words (mine), "to be fair, let's pretend that
indigent patients can sue the charity hospitals." That was easy. It even makes
sense under the law of third party beneficiaries.

We now say that there is a contract made between a hospital and the state and
federal governments, and the bargain is made so that indigent, uninsured and
underinsured patients have access to free or discounted medical care. As the
intended beneficiaries of the contract, they have the right to enforce it by
going to court. The answer to the federal judge who asked, "Are you prepared to
let private citizens sue the Red Cross if they think the charity is not
complying with the tax code?" is "Yes" if the Red Cross starts charging fees for
disaster relief.

Outrageous conduct demands a determined response. Congress may respond, but not
any time soon. The IRS is missing in action. Even if every one of the state
attorneys general responded, the result would likely be uneven. In the meantime,
a little bit of Sir Coke's legal fictionalizing could jump-start a response to a
genuine outrage. Why not? If we're willing to accept the legal fiction that a
corporation such as Microsoft is a person just like you and me, then we should
be willing to accept a new legal fiction that charity hospitals should provide
charity care. 3

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                Copyright 2005 Corporate Legal Times Corporation


                              52 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          September 16, 1998 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Hospital funding bill sparks anger

BYLINE: SANDRA McKAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 478 words


A group of Essendon residents seeking compensation for the closure of their
local hospital - which they helped establish 20 years ago with private donations
- could be thwarted by a new state law.

The Opposition claimed yesterday that a bill now before Parliament would prevent
benefactors of hospitals seeking compensation in the event of closure or a
merger.

According to legal advice obtained by the Opposition, tens of millions of
dollars tied up in individual hospital trusts and bequests could be handed over
to "successor" bodies in the event of amalgamation or closure.

Labor's health spokesman, Mr John Thwaites, said this could mean donations
intended for local health services could be swallowed by health networks and
used elsewhere.

He said the specific purpose of the Health Services (Further Amendment) Bill was
to stop residents suing the Government over the imminent closure of Essendon
Hospital. But he said it had a much broader implication, and could be used to
redistribute millions of dollars donated to local hospitals.

This was strongly denied by the Health Minister, Mr Rob Knowles, yesterday, who
said the purpose of the bill was to allow a $1 million-plus bequest to Maffra's
hospital to continue now that it has merged with a new health service in Sale.

Although the bill does not refer to Maffra, Mr Knowles said the intention was to
"make sure bequests continue to be honored even though health service structures
will change from time to time".

Mr Knowles refused to comment on the Opposition's legal advice, but denied it
had anything to do with thwarting potential legal action over the closure of
Essendon Hospital later this year.

Essendon residents, who donated nearly $700,000 to build the hospital in 1978,
the Moonee Valley Council, which donated $50,000, and the Essendon Hospital
Futures Committee are seeking compensation now the hospital is being closed.

Their possible legal action was resting on a 1991 Supreme Court decision over
the merger of Royal Melbourne and Essendon hospitals, which found that monies
donated specifically to help build a hospital could be recovered if a hospital
was shut down or amalgamated.

But the legal advice from Holding Redlich solicitors obtained by Mr Thwaites
suggests residents stand little chance of compensation if Mr Knowles' bill is
passed.

"In our view, the proposed Act creates a legislative scheme which is clearly
designed to prevent members or bodies within the community who have made
donations to a charitable trust ... from seeking any relief or remedy in the
courts to recover ... their funds following the closure, amalgamation, or
aggregation of the former body to which the trust applied," the lawyers found.

A spokeswoman for Mr Knowles said money that would have been spent maintaining
Essendon hospital would be spent on a new hospital in Broadmeadows, to be
officially opened today.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1998 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

Trauma center cases discharged;
Bay area hospitals will stop court challenges against new competitors in Pasco,
Manatee

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



HIGHLIGHT: Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are
dropping legal challenges against newer trauma centers.


Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are dropping
legal challenges against trauma centers at Blake Medical Center in Manatee
County and Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point in Pasco County.

The moves Friday by Tampa General Hospital, Bayfront Medical Center in St.
Petersburg and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa were expected after an
administrative law judge last month approved a new state rule for determining
where trauma centers could be allowed across the state.

That rule includes a scoring system that takes into account several factors in
determining whether new trauma centers should be approved.

A representative for the plaintiff hospitals declined to comment on the move
when reached Monday.

The Tampa Bay-area hospitals waged long-running fights against the Manatee
County and Pasco County trauma centers, which the state Department of Health
allowed to open in 2011.

But after the new rule was approved in June by Administrative Law Judge R. Bruce
McKibben, attorneys said it likely would be difficult for the Tampa Bay-area
hospitals to win the legal challenges.

UF Health Shands in Gainesville also had challenged a new trauma center at Ocala
Regional Medical Center. UF Health Shands already dropped its case after the
McKibben ruling.

Parts of the hospital industry have been embroiled in legal battles for about
three years about the trauma-center approval process.

Those battles have focused heavily on Department of Health decisions to allow
trauma centers to open at Ocala Regional, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point
and Blake Medical Center. All are affiliated with the HCA health care chain.

Judges found that an earlier rule used to approve those trauma centers was
invalid. But the Department of Health wrote the new rule that McKibben approved.

Trauma centers have the specialized staff and equipment to treat severely
injured patients. But older, established health care concerns haven't wanted to
compete with newer providers.

The legal battle was as much about the business of health care; trauma doctors
and staff need a certain volume of patients, up to 1,000 yearly, to keep up
their expertise and pay the bills.

A report by the American College of Surgeons on Florida's trauma system said
existing trauma centers have a clear financial incentive to keep new hospitals
out of the pool.

The hospitals that operate older trauma centers say having more centers dilutes
the pool of patients and also causes a strain on available medical specialists.

The newer centers, at hospitals affiliated with HCA, responded that the increase
in Florida's residents and visitors justifies the need.

TRAUMA, Page 5

Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are dropping
legal challenges against trauma centers at Blake Medical Center in Manatee
County and Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point in Pasco County.

The moves Friday by Tampa General Hospital, Bayfront Medical Center in St.
Petersburg and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa were expected after an
administrative law judge last month approved a new state rule for determining
where trauma centers could be allowed across the state.

That rule includes a scoring system that takes into account several factors in
determining whether new trauma centers should be approved.

A representative for the plaintiff hospitals declined to comment on the move
when reached Monday.

The Tampa Bay-area hospitals waged long-running fights against the Manatee
County and Pasco County trauma centers, which the state Department of Health
allowed to open in 2011.

But after the new rule was approved in June by Administrative Law Judge R. Bruce
McKibben, attorneys said it likely would be difficult for the Tampa Bay-area
hospitals to win the legal challenges.

UF Health Shands in Gainesville also had challenged a new trauma center at Ocala
Regional Medical Center. UF Health Shands already dropped its case after the
McKibben ruling.

Parts of the hospital industry have been embroiled in legal battles for about
three years about the trauma-center approval process.

Those battles have focused heavily on Department of Health decisions to allow
trauma centers to open at Ocala Regional, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point
and Blake Medical Center. All are affiliated with the HCA health care chain.

Judges found that an earlier rule used to approve those trauma centers was
invalid. But the Department of Health wrote the new rule that McKibben approved.

Trauma centers have the specialized staff and equipment to treat severely
injured patients. But older, established health care concerns haven't wanted to
compete with newer providers.

The legal battle was as much about the business of health care; trauma doctors
and staff need a certain volume of patients, up to 1,000 yearly, to keep up
their expertise and pay the bills.

A report by the American College of Surgeons on Florida's trauma system said
existing trauma centers have a clear financial incentive to keep new hospitals
out of the pool.

The hospitals that operate older trauma centers say having more centers dilutes
the pool of patients and also causes a strain on available medical specialists.

The newer centers, at hospitals affiliated with HCA, responded that the increase
in Florida's residents and visitors justifies the need.

Trauma

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

Trauma center cases discharged;
Bay area hospitals will stop court challenges against new competitors in Pasco,
Manatee

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



HIGHLIGHT: Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are
dropping legal challenges against newer trauma centers.


Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are dropping
legal challenges against trauma centers at Blake Medical Center in Manatee
County and Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point in Pasco County.

The moves Friday by Tampa General Hospital, Bayfront Medical Center in St.
Petersburg and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa were expected after an
administrative law judge last month approved a new state rule for determining
where trauma centers could be allowed across the state.

That rule includes a scoring system that takes into account several factors in
determining whether new trauma centers should be approved.

A representative for the plaintiff hospitals declined to comment on the move
when reached Monday.

The Tampa Bay-area hospitals waged long-running fights against the Manatee
County and Pasco County trauma centers, which the state Department of Health
allowed to open in 2011.

But after the new rule was approved in June by Administrative Law Judge R. Bruce
McKibben, attorneys said it likely would be difficult for the Tampa Bay-area
hospitals to win the legal challenges.

UF Health Shands in Gainesville also had challenged a new trauma center at Ocala
Regional Medical Center. UF Health Shands already dropped its case after the
McKibben ruling.

Parts of the hospital industry have been embroiled in legal battles for about
three years about the trauma-center approval process.

Those battles have focused heavily on Department of Health decisions to allow
trauma centers to open at Ocala Regional, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point
and Blake Medical Center. All are affiliated with the HCA health care chain.

Judges found that an earlier rule used to approve those trauma centers was
invalid. But the Department of Health wrote the new rule that McKibben approved.

Trauma centers have the specialized staff and equipment to treat severely
injured patients. But older, established health care concerns haven't wanted to
compete with newer providers.

The legal battle was as much about the business of health care; trauma doctors
and staff need a certain volume of patients, up to 1,000 yearly, to keep up
their expertise and pay the bills.

A report by the American College of Surgeons on Florida's trauma system said
existing trauma centers have a clear financial incentive to keep new hospitals
out of the pool.

The hospitals that operate older trauma centers say having more centers dilutes
the pool of patients and also causes a strain on available medical specialists.

The newer centers, at hospitals affiliated with HCA, responded that the increase
in Florida's residents and visitors justifies the need.

TRAUMA, Page 5

Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are dropping
legal challenges against trauma centers at Blake Medical Center in Manatee
County and Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point in Pasco County.

The moves Friday by Tampa General Hospital, Bayfront Medical Center in St.
Petersburg and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa were expected after an
administrative law judge last month approved a new state rule for determining
where trauma centers could be allowed across the state.

That rule includes a scoring system that takes into account several factors in
determining whether new trauma centers should be approved.

A representative for the plaintiff hospitals declined to comment on the move
when reached Monday.

The Tampa Bay-area hospitals waged long-running fights against the Manatee
County and Pasco County trauma centers, which the state Department of Health
allowed to open in 2011.

But after the new rule was approved in June by Administrative Law Judge R. Bruce
McKibben, attorneys said it likely would be difficult for the Tampa Bay-area
hospitals to win the legal challenges.

UF Health Shands in Gainesville also had challenged a new trauma center at Ocala
Regional Medical Center. UF Health Shands already dropped its case after the
McKibben ruling.

Parts of the hospital industry have been embroiled in legal battles for about
three years about the trauma-center approval process.

Those battles have focused heavily on Department of Health decisions to allow
trauma centers to open at Ocala Regional, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point
and Blake Medical Center. All are affiliated with the HCA health care chain.

Judges found that an earlier rule used to approve those trauma centers was
invalid. But the Department of Health wrote the new rule that McKibben approved.

Trauma centers have the specialized staff and equipment to treat severely
injured patients. But older, established health care concerns haven't wanted to
compete with newer providers.

The legal battle was as much about the business of health care; trauma doctors
and staff need a certain volume of patients, up to 1,000 yearly, to keep up
their expertise and pay the bills.

A report by the American College of Surgeons on Florida's trauma system said
existing trauma centers have a clear financial incentive to keep new hospitals
out of the pool.

The hospitals that operate older trauma centers say having more centers dilutes
the pool of patients and also causes a strain on available medical specialists.

The newer centers, at hospitals affiliated with HCA, responded that the increase
in Florida's residents and visitors justifies the need.

Trauma

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                   The Virgin Islands Daily News, St. Thomas

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 24, 2014 Friday

Fired legal counsel for Luis sues hospital, CEO

BYLINE: Joy Blackburn, The Virgin Islands Daily News, St. Thomas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1825 words


Oct. 24--ST. CROIX -- Luis Hospital's former legal counsel -- fired abruptly by
Chief Executive Officer Dr. Kendall Griffith on July 15 -- is now suing the
hospital, alleging that she was terminated in retaliation for being a
whistleblower.

Royette Russell, who had represented the hospital since June 2008, filed the
lawsuit against Luis Hospital and Griffith, in his professional and personal
capacities, in federal court on Wednesday.

"Unfortunately, Kendall Griffith is a wonderful human being, but he should not
be running the hospital," said Lee Rohn, who is Russell's attorney. "The
problems that came out and caused the crisis from CMS are the exact same
problems that Royette Russell as legal counsel for the board and hospital was
telling him he could not continue to do without getting decertification."

In addition, Russell is alleging in the 14-page complaint that the hospital
discriminated against her on the basis of her sex, in violation of federal and
local laws. The lawsuit also contends that the hospital and Griffith defamed and
slandered Russell and that they violated their duty of good faith and fair
dealing.

Russell is seeking unspecified damages, including punitive damages against
Griffith.

Griffith did not return multiple messages from The Daily News on Thursday
seeking comment about the lawsuit.

Thursday night, Griffith's executive assistant, Keith James, sent a message
saying "Since Dr. Griffith is not in receipt of a copy of the document
referenced in your message this afternoon, he is not a position to comment on it
at this time."

CMS

Russell's firing came less than two weeks before the U.S. Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, or CMS, conducted an inspection of the hospital from July
28 to Aug. 1.

Because of the findings from that inspection and because of the hospital's
previous, repeated inability to meet the standards in Medicare's Conditions of
Participation, CMS was on the brink of decertifying the hospital on Oct. 9.

CMS wound up granting a reprieve, though, postponing the decertification date to
Nov. 20 to give the hospital and the local government time to develop a systems
improvement agreement. If that agreement is executed by Nov. 20, the hospital
would have nine more months to implement the improvements.

At some point toward the end of that period, CMS will conduct a last-chance
survey.

The federal agency granted the reprieve a few days after Griffith and Luis
Hospital board chairman Anthony Ricketts, along with lawyer Deborah Gardner, who
the hospital retained to represent it in dealings with CMS, traveled to
Baltimore to meet with CMS officials and plead their case.

Lawsuit

Russell's lawsuit contends that Griffith discriminated against Russell because
she is a woman and that he created an extremely hostile work environment for
her.

"It started with his refusing to treat her opinions or proposals with the
respect they were due and to be offended unless she agreed with virtually
everything he said," the lawsuit states.

Russell's lawsuit goes on to say that she began noticing how Griffith treated
her compared with how he treated male employees in the fall of 2013, and she
contends that her work environment became progressively more hostile as she
continued to proffer legal advice to Griffith.

"The more plaintiff suggested that Griffith's course of action had legal flaws,
the more angry and hostile and rude he became towards plaintiff and the more
hostile the work environment became," the lawsuit says.

Russell contends she complained to Ricketts and to Chief Nursing Officer Justa
Encarnacion, but no real action was taken to stop the problem.

"In addition, plaintiff was making valid complaints about how the hospital was
being run and pointing out that the actions being taken would result in legal or
regulatory actions against the hospital," the lawsuit contends. It characterizes
Russell as "the de facto compliance officer for the hospital" and says she had a
duty to receive and report complaints of wrongdoing.

Problems

The lawsuit lists a number of concerns that Russell says she brought up to
Griffith repeatedly until March 15 with no results, including:

- Failure to properly hire and fire persons.

- Failure to properly process hiring information.

- Failure to properly determine employees' pay.

- "Apparent favoritism as to some employees over others."

- "Not properly reporting matters" and failure to follow procedures. It did not
say what those matters were.

"Plaintiff made it clear that if Dr. Griffith did not cease the improper actions
they would have to be reported," the lawsuit states.

It also alleges that Griffith retaliated against Russell, refusing to meet with
her and removing her job responsibilities to oversee a number of departments.

March memo

The lawsuit also refers to a March 20 memo in which Russell says she pointed out
to Griffith multiple concerns she had as legal counsel and as "de facto
compliance officer."

In the memo, according to the lawsuit, Russell made it clear that those problems
needed to be addressed "or she was obligated to take action."

According to the lawsuit, the problems Russell mentioned in the memo included:

- That Griffith was allowing time and attendance to be abused and allowing a
hospital official to be paid regular pay while not coming to work, a violation
of hospital policy. Russell advised that the official should apply for sick
leave and had already pointed out this information previously, according to the
lawsuit.

- That a high-ranking doctor was being allowed to collect sick pay even though
he had resigned and as such was not eligible for sick pay.

- Irregularities in hiring and firing, including not having all employees go
through the same basic process regarding compensation based on competencies, and
salaries being changed without proper justification "which could put the
hospital in problems with or the loss of CMS benefits."

- That Griffith was allowing employees to work without signed contracts, and
Russell had gone to Human Resources about the problem.

- A failure to check on the actual qualifications of one of the higher-level
managers in a non-medical position.

- That employees were being laid-off and called back "without proper vetting
with the finance department while vendors continue to be owed" more than $50
million.

"In the memo, Russell explained to Dr. Griffith that her actual client was the
hospital and as such she was required to take action against Dr. Griffith for
improper actions if necessary," the lawsuit said. "She reminded Dr. Griffith of
what had happened at the Roy Lester Schneider Hospital when the CEO, Miller, had
been allowed unfettered power."

The lawsuit states that Griffith was visibly shaking when he saw the memo but
never responded to it "and refused to discuss it with the Plaintiff nor correct
the failure to investigate malpractice complaints or to stop improperly hiring
physicians without the proper credentials."

Among a multitude of problems that CMS pointed out in its inspection report were
that six physicians received temporary privileges and were improperly allowed to
practice medicine by Griffith, the interim chief medical officer and the chief
of service without being approved by the territorial hospital board.

The CMS report also found that while the territorial hospital board was
ineffective and did not exercise proper oversight, the board also was unaware of
certain quality of care issues because no one reported those issues to the
board.

Legal advice

Russell's lawsuit alleges that Griffith became more hostile toward Russell and
instructed staff not to consult with her for legal advice on at least two
occasions, including "the issue of the dead baby that the press was inquiring
about and which the failure to properly investigate was a CMS violation."

The CMS report noted that in April, hospital staff threw out the remains of a
22-week-old fetus, either in the laundry or rubbish, and the hospital's
investigation was unable to determine the final disposition of the fetal
remains.

Russell's lawsuit also alleges that Griffith ignored her counsel, which resulted
in him mishandling "the issue of whether or not to suspend Dr. Appleyard."

Dr. Deborah Appleyard is a physician specializing in spine and orthopedic care
and surgeries who was hired by Luis Hospital in August 2011. She has filed a
lawsuit that claims her complaints about others' failure to meet standards of
care led to her being harassed and ultimately suspended.

Russell's lawsuit contends that in relation to Appleyard, Russell advised that
Griffith "was not following the proper procedures and would cause the hospital
to be sued."

The lawsuit alleges Griffith did not follow the advice, did not follow proper
procedures and suspended Appleyard, "which has resulted in the hospital being
sued" and incurring expenses.

Appleyard's lawsuit is pending.

Increasing tension

Russell's lawsuit describes increasing tension and an increasingly hostile
environment as time went on.

It mentions an incident in May, when Russell contends Griffith came into an
emergency executive manager meeting, stating that the board was meeting with the
governor that day. According to the lawsuit, Griffith said "the governor told
the board that his legal counsel told him that the legal counsel for the
hospital had called the governor's legal counsel and threatened that if the
contract for financial consulting services was not signed she would embarrass
the governor."

The lawsuit contends another hospital staff member actually had made the call
but that Griffith, without investigating, "determined that plaintiff had done as
she had been accused of."

It also says that Russell continued to note noncompliance issues "as to Dr.
Griffith including refusing to follow the procedures at the hospital that
operated as check and balances."

It also points to various issues that Russell contends showed discrimination
against her because she is a woman.

Ultimately, a little after 5 p.m. July 15, Griffith fired Russell, according to
the lawsuit.

The lawsuit notes that Russell was replaced by a male attorney "with less
experience and at a salary higher than Plaintiff's salary."

Russell is seeking "damages as they may appear including punitive against Dr.
Griffith, cost and fees, pre and post judgment interest and such other relief as
this court deems fair and just."

Rohn said the timing of the lawsuit is "purely coincidental."

She said that Russell had come to her a couple of months ago and that an Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission complaint had to be filed first.

Rohn also said that the local whistleblower statute allows 90 days for a claim
to be filed.

"I didn't want to put any of her rights in jeopardy, so we filed," she said.

- Contact Joy Blackburn at 714-9145 or email jblackburn@dailynews.vi

___ (c)2014 The Virgin Islands Daily News (St. Thomas, VIR) Visit The Virgin
Islands Daily News (St. Thomas, VIR) at www.virginislandsdailynews.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141024-1VI-Fired-legal-counsel-for-Luis-sues-hospital
-CEO-1024-20141024

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1VI


                  Copyright 2014 The Virgin Islands Daily News


                              56 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                          November 8, 1993, Monday, AM

Conflict charges dog Barrie legal aid

BYLINE: By Darcy Henton TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 356 words


   A Barrie legal aid director who replaced a previous director accused of
conflict of interest now faces a similar allegation.

A patient at the Oak Ridge division of Penetanguishene Mental Health Centre, who
is seeking to sue the maximum-security hospital, has complained that Ramona
Wildman may not be able to assess fairly his requests for legal aid.

Gerald Vaughan said his first request for funding to obtain a legal opinion on a
complaint against the hospital was denied by Wildman, chair of a hospital
steering committee established seven years ago.

He said Wildman, a Barrie lawyer who is also the former chairperson of a
community advisory committee that met regularly with hospital officials, reviews
all funding requests from Oak Ridge patients.

Vaughan has complained to the provincial director of legal aid, to Premier Bob
Rae and to eight MPPs about the province's policy of appointing individuals to
more than one government position.

"I question whether we have a government policy on conflict of interest, and, if
so, whether it is being properly applied."

The previous director, Douglas Haig, was accused earlier this year of being in
conflict because he also sat on the Criminal Code Advisory Board, which decides
when to release patients found not guilty of crimes by reason of insanity.

A patient complained that Haig appeared to be in a position to deny funding for
patient appeals of board decisions.

Haig retired following an investigation by Legal Aid, but provincial Legal Aid
director Bob Holden said he was satisfied that procedures set out by his office
prevented any conflicts from arising.

Wildman said she was chosen for the job largely because of her work as an
advocate for patients at the Penetanguishene hospital.

She said she would be reluctant to resign as chairperson of the steering
committee, even though it hasn't met for three years, because it can continue to
lobby of behalf of patients for improvements to the hospital.

Wildman said she began personally reviewing all the Oak Ridge applications as a
result of the allegations of conflict against Haig.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              57 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Legal wrangle is headache for developers

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 423 words


Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent

THE selection of successful bidders to build private hospitals on the site of
public hospitals was announced with fanfare in late summer after much debate
about the controversial plan.

The proposal had become an election issue with Opposition parties claiming it
would just re-inforce our two tier health system with deluxe facilities next to
modest public hospitals.

The successful bidders to build the hospital on Beaumont was the Beacon Group
which was already behind the Beacon Hospital in Sandyford, Dublin.

The developers chosen to build the hospital at St James's was a consortium known
as Synchrony -- a group that includes multinational firm Capio Healthcare and
developer Bernard McNamara.

However, it now appears neither Beaumont nor St James's had the legal standing
to enter into agreements with these developers who had already invested heavily
in promoting their bid.

Since the announcement, discussions on the proposals have continued between the
developers and the boards of the two public hospitals.

It is understood that no binding contracts have yet been signed.

But it is believed the boards of both hospitals have been made aware of the
legal questions which have led to the emergency legislation being rushed
through.

No planning permission has yet been sought for the private hospitals and the
developers are finding that doing business through the public service is proving
much slower than if they were proceeding with their own projects on their own.

The question of who owns hospital land in other areas of the country is believed
to have deterred developers from getting involved in co-location projects.

The idea is that the State will lease -- not sell -- the land to the private
developers who will build the co-located facility next to the public hospital.
The aim is to free-up private beds for public patients in public hospitals.

The news of the legal question mark over the ownership of the land in the two
major hospitals is believed to have come as a shock to both sets of developers.

The question the Department of Health must answer is why this was allowed to
proceed for so long without any legal checks being made.

The question mark over the legal status of the National Paediatric Hospital
Development Board will also come as a surprise. Health Minister Mary Harney
announced that it was being put on a statutory footing on the eve of the
election in order to allow the necessary preparatory work for the establishment
of the national children's hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 18, 1985 Saturday

Rights of the patient

BYLINE: J. E. H. Bishop; GAM

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: London, Ont.


The article Psychiatric Patients Held Involuntarily Deprived Of Right (May
 7) quotes a lawyer as saying, "most involuntary patients are not aware of
 their rights." This statement is not accurate. For more than a year, each
 provincial psychiatric hospital has had a patient advocate freely
 available to all patients to inform them of their rights and help them
 solve bureaucratic or legal problems and get any legal assistance they
 need. While it is true that the general hospitals do not yet have such
 advocates, the majority of involuntary patients are in the psychiatric
 hospitals.

At our psychiatric hospital in London (and at most or all of the other
 provincial psychiatric hospitals) legal aid comes regularly to the
 hospital every one to two weeks, according to patient demand, and in the
 patient areas on the wards there are notices posted giving the telephone
 number for contacting legal aid.

The author also fails to mention that all patients held on a
 certificate of involuntary admission are sent written notices of committal
 informing them that an involuntary certificate has been completed, that
 they are entitled to a hearing before the regional review board, and that
 if they wish a review hearing, they must send a written request to the
 board or the appropriate person at the hospital.

The patient advocates are there to help interpret the information and
 assist the involuntary patients in making sure that their rights are being
 respected.
   J. E. H. Bishop  , MD
  Ontario Psychiatric Association
   London, Ont.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday

Wife fights Royal Free Hospital for control of husband's care after overdose
blunder

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 414 words


The wife of a disabled father-of-five is involved in a legal battle with the
Royal Free Hospital to take her husband off its books after nurses gave him a
life-threatening overdose.



The wife of a disabled father-of-five is involved in a legal battle with the
Royal Free Hospital to take her husband off its books.

Chammelle Courtney has demanded that husband Mark is transferred to University
College Hospital (UCH) after a blunder in January when staff gave the former
lorry driver 10 times the recommended dose of pain relief drugs. He had been
taken to hospital with breathing problems.

Mr Courtney suffered severe brain damage in 2007 after an asthma attack.

His wife, legally appointed to manage his affairs, wants the hospital to let Mr
Courtney move to UCH but the Royal Free has challenged her.

Mrs Courtney, 38, said: "My main concern is to keep my husband alive and I am
really worried that if he stays under the control of this hospital then he will
die."

The hospital would not comment on the issue of transferring Mr Courtney as the
legal case is being considered. But a spokeswoman said hospital bosses are in
the middle of reviewing policies following the overdose.

Chammelle Courtney has demanded that her husband Mark is transferred to nearby
University College Hospital (UCH) after the blunder.

Hospital staff gave the former lorry driver 10 times the recommended dose of
pain relief drugs on January 11 this year after he was taken to hospital with
breathing problems.

Mr Courtney suffered severe brain damage in 2007 after an asthma attack.

His wife, who is legally appointed to manage his affairs, has demanded the
hospital in Pond Street, Hampstead, let Mr Courtney move to UCH but the Royal
Free has challenged her decision.

Mrs Courtney, 38, said: "My main concern is to keep my husband alive and I am
really worried that if he stays under the control of this hospital then he will
die. It's as plain and simple as that."

The hospital would not comment on the issue of transferring Mr Courtney as the
legal case is being considered.

But a spokeswoman did confirm hospital bosses were in the middle of reviewing
policies following the overdose blunder.

She said: "The nurses involved have been through a performance and conduct
process.

"The medication safety committee is reviewing the policy for prescribing and
managing controlled liquid medication based on the recommendations from the full
and detailed serious untoward incident investigation carried out by the trust."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Homeless Families May Go To City Hospitals Overnight

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 685 words


The Giuliani administration plans to begin using rooms at two public hospitals
-- North Central Bronx Hospital and Harlem Hospital Center -- to house homeless
families overnight if the need arises, officials said yesterday.

But the Legal Aid Society, which has been monitoring the city's handling of the
homeless as part of a long-standing court case, said it was prepared to sue to
stop the plan. Elected officials and public health advocates, too, concerned
about the future of the city's public hospitals, said they opposed it.

Under a City Council ordinance that the Mayor signed into law in May, as well as
later court orders, the city is required to find overnight placement for all
families that come to its Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx seeking
shelter.

On June 30, a judge found the city in violation of the new law and ordered it to
comply by July 12.

Susan Wiviott, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Homeless Services,
said that the city had done "pretty well" in complying with the latest court
order. "Just about every night we've had places to put everyone as needed," she
said.

But Steven Banks, director of the Homeless Rights Project for the Legal Aid
Society, said that that was because the city was sending families to temporary
placements for several nights in a row -- bringing them back to the Emergency
Assistance Unit during the day -- rather than finding permanent housing, in
violation of a 1990 court order. He said the hospital plan would not solve that
problem.

Ms. Wiviott said the department could begin placing up to 12 families, one
family per room, at North Central Bronx Hospital as early as tomorrow.

"We're potentially using 12 rooms, sort of on an as-needed basis, until the
beginning of September," Ms. Wiviott said. At that point, she said, she expects
the number of homeless families needing placement to drop.

The plan to use North Central Bronx for homeless families was reported yesterday
in The Daily News.

City officials said that homeless families would also be placed on the ninth
floor of Harlem Hospital's Kountz Pavilion, and that those beds might be used
for overnight placements on a more permanent basis.

Because the number of patients at public hospitals is dwindling, the city's
Health and Hospitals Corporation agreed to let the Department of Homeless
Services place homeless families at the two hospitals, Dr. Luis R. Marcos, the
corporation's president, said yesterday.

"If there is a need to house these homeless families, since we have space at
North Central Bronx and Harlem, we'd be happy to help," Dr. Marcos said.

But Mr. Banks said that he told city officials, in a phone conference convened
by a court-appointed monitor, that he was prepared to sue to stop the plan, and
that city officials had told him they might reconsider.

"It's unlawful to house families with children in such facilities," Mr. Banks
said. "The fact that the city is prepared to resort to such facilities is a
direct result of the city's reduction in permanent housing for homeless
families, which has caused a backlog in the shelter system."

Ms. Wiviott said the law required that a family have a room and a bathroom,
which is why a hospital would be an acceptable placement.

But Mr. Banks said the new law prohibits the city from opening any new shelters
that are not readily convertible -- with cooking facilities and other basic
services -- to permanent housing. A hospital, he said, would not meet that
standard.

The Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, and Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez of
the Bronx said they believed that the state needed to authorize such use of
hospitals.

Dr. Marcos said last night that "the State Department of Health is aware" of the
plan.

Community leaders also expressed concern that the city's plan could have a
negative impact on the hospitals. The future of North Central Bronx Hospital is
a matter of growing concern in the area. Public health advocates and elected
officials say they believe the city is secretly trying to close the hospital, a
charge the city has denied.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                Caribbean Net News, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              March 1, 2010 Monday

Suriname hospitals consider legal action to end strike

BYLINE: Ivan Cairo, Caribbean Net News, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


Mar. 1--PARAMARIBO, Suriname --  At least one of three public hospitals in
Suriname, which are being seriously affected by strike actions, is considering
legal action against the union an official at the Lands Hospital has confirmed.

Operations at three of Suriname's four public hospitals are being hit by a
walkout over a wage dispute with the government.

In an invited comment, Lorenzo Irion, a spokesman for the Lands Hospital,
disclosed on Sunday that the hospital management is considering legal action
against the worker's union if mediation scheduled for Tuesday fails to offer a
resolution.

At the request of the management, the Suriname Mediation Board, the country's
institute which handles conflicts between worker's unions and employers, has
summoned parties in an attempt to seek a resolution.

"We are still performing deliveries and emergency operations. The doctors are
not on strike and with the personnel that are on hand we are keeping operations
running as best as we can. But the management is considering legal steps against
the union to bring back some normalcy," said Irion.

He further disclosed that Home Affairs minister Maurits Hassankhan, who has lead
responsibility in the implementation of the FISO salary scheme, has indicated
his willingness to meet with the union and hospital management on Monday, to
discuss the issues.

Meanwhile Finance Minister Humphrey Hildenberg is adamant that he is unaware of
an agreement to finance salaries for hospital workers on basis of the new wage
structure. According to officials retroactive pay of the new salaries will cost
about US$17.9 million.

Workers at the Academic Hospital Paramaribo, the Nickerie Hospital and Lands
Hospital downed their tools over a week ago after the government failed to
include them into the newly introduced salary scheme (FISO) for public servants.

According to the unions, workers have been waiting for 11 months now for the
government to implement the new salary structure. Meanwhile, workers at the
Psychiatric Hospital Suriname, during a meeting on Friday agreed to wait until
Tuesday to decide whether they would join the strike at he other institutions.

Irion informed that Lands Hospital has completed all administrative requirements
to pay the new salaries since last year, but that the money has to come from the
government. As a result of the strike, the hospital since Friday has been
discharging patients who don't need urgent care, while no new patients are being
admitted, unless they are in a life threatening condition.

Over the weekend workers at the Academic Hospital processed the required
information obtained from the ministry of Home Affairs into the hospital
computers in order to facilitate payment of the new salaries.

In a meeting on Tuesday the union at this hospital will take a decision whether
to suspend or continue the strike action.

Meanwhile, the General Union for Nurses in Suriname, an umbrella organization
for nurses, informed the management of the hospitals that they will join the
industrial actions on Tuesday, if by that date the new salaries are not paid.

To see more of the Caribbean Net News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.caribbeannetnews.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Caribbean Net News, Grand
Cayman, Cayman Islands Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services.
For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100301-1CB-Suriname-hospitals-consider-legal-action-to-end-strike-0301

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CB


                       Copyright 2010 Caribbean Net News


                              62 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                               November 13, 2016
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kerry nurses blew whistle on HSE's 'offensive' memo;
Rare legal action against elderly patient concluded last year

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 785 words


Maeve Sheehan THE Irish nursing union was notified by nurses in Kerry General
Hospital about the controversial legal memo that advised the use of "minimum
force" on "trespassing" patients ready to be discharged. The Irish Nursing and
Midwives Association was contacted about the memo by concerned members at Kerry
General on October 26, more than two weeks after it was drafted by the Health
Service Executive's legal department.

The memo was "withdrawn" by the HSE two days later on October 28. But the INMO's
Phil Ni Sheaghdha said the INMO continued to get concerned calls about the memo
right up to last week from members "in various hospitals", suggesting that it
remained in circulation.

The memo generated public outrage after a copy was leaked to RTE last week. The
Minister for Health, Simon Harris, referred to it as "offensive" and Tony
O'Brien, the director general of the HSE, apologised for it.

The memo offered hospitals guidance on freeing up hospital beds as they prepared
for an increased demand for acute services over the flu season.

The INMO's director of regulation, Edward Mathews, outlined details of the memo
in an urgent notice to members last week.

"The memo considers circumstances where a patient may refuse to leave a hospital
bed, where they have been medically discharged, and advises that a nurse has
lawful authority to move a person from a ward to ward within a hospital,
regardless of the wishes of a patient, and further advises that the nurse has an
equal right to remove the person from a bed improperly occupied. The advice
continues that once a person refuses to leave, the nurse is entitled to remove
the person as a trespasser, using minimum force to do so."

Tony O'Brien told an Oireachtas Committee last week that the legal advice did
not reflect general policy and related only to the "very rare cases" where a
patient refuses 'The patient and her family refused to seek nursing home care'
to move on to other forms of care after their treatment in a hospital bed has
been completed.

Liam Woods said that the memo was a "briefing note" for senior management, and
said that no patients were removed from their beds.

There are more than 500 patients occupying beds in acute hospitals even though
their care has ended.

Senior health sources said this weekend that the hospitals are under pressure
due to the shortage of step-down facilities but that legal action was rare.

One of the few known cases concerned a legal action to recover fees taken by St
James Hospital in Dublin against an CAPTION: HSE chief Tony O'Brien elderly
patient who allegedly "refused" to be discharged.

It is understood the patient passed away while she was still a patient in the
hospital that was suing her.

The legal action the hospital took against her concluded in the High Court in
June last year. St James Hospital declined to comment on the outcome of the case
this weekend.

However, in a detailed statement to this newspaper two years ago, the hospital
said the patient in question was ready for discharge in May 2010.

The hospital said the patient "refused" to apply for the Fair Deal Scheme to
avail of nursing home care and that the patient's "family also refused to pursue
the patient's options under the scheme, after the patient was fit for discharge
to a long-term care facility".

The hospital said its social work department "had been actively engaged in
finding and offering long-term care options to the patient, but neither the
patient nor her children will complete the necessary forms to enable her to
avail of such options".

It continued: "If patients refuse to accept discharge from acute care, the
hospital is obliged under the Health (Amendment) Act of 2005 and the regulations
made under the Act to charge the patient for the bed being occupied."

St James Hospital issued legal proceedings against the patient in 2012 and got a
High Court order for the fees a year later. The case was appealed by the patient
who died before the appeal concluded.

Hospitals are under enormous pressure to free up acute beds. The Minister for
Health, Simon Harris, said earlier this year that the number of delayed
discharges was far too high, and reducing the figure was "key to making progress
in our emergency departments".

An extra (EURO)40m was provided under the Winter Initiative to reduce emergency
department overcrowding and to provide extra home care packages.

However, he said last week that he was "furious" when he learned of the HSE memo
which said that patients who were ready for discharge but did not leave were
"trespassers" who could be lawfully removed by nurses.

He said he was informed about the existence of the memo on October 27, the day
before it was formally rescinded by the HSE.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 14, 2005, Monday

£500 ..THAT'S ALL YOU WILL GET FOR A DEAD CHILD'S ORGANS;
 PARENTS FIGHT ON AS NHS DOES U-TURN

BYLINE: JANE KERR AND REBECCA SMITH

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 528 words

HIGHLIGHT: BRISTOL; The Royal Infirmary kept body parts; LIVERPOOL; Alder Hey
had organs in lab; SORRY: Cindy and Graham; SCANDAL: Organs store at Alder Hey


HUNDREDS of parents whose dead babies' organs were removed and stored without
their permission are facing fresh heartbreak.

The NHS is refusing to pay legal bills of half the 1,348 families as they fight
for compensation.

And that could see them left with as little as £500 after years of bitter
wrangling.

One devastated parent said yesterday: "Depending on how long it goes on we could
end up paying them money.

"This has been going on now for nearly five years and the strain is becoming
intolerable."

NHS bosses offered the families £3.3million compensation after the High Court
ruled last March that many hospitals across the UK had broken the law. That
meant they would get around £2,448 each.

But health chiefs now argue that more than half of them didn't suffer
foreseeable psychological damage and won't pay solicitors' bills.

In a double blow, the Legal Services Commission, which funds legal aid, wants
some of the money back which paid for nearly half of the families High Court
action. Once many of the parents settle their own legal costs, which are
currently average pounds 1,618 each, and other expenses, they could be out of
pocket.

Cindy and Graham Bewes, who discovered the bodies of their stillborn twin babies
Danielle and Lauren were kept at Alder Hey Children's Hospital in Liverpool, got
£5,000 compensation and an apology after settling at arbitration.

Cindy said: "I feel desperately sorry for the families because now it seems the
only ones who are going to win are the lawyers.

"I feel very strongly that every family should receive the same amount - not
because it is about the money but because we should be treated equally."

She added: "The most important thing was always getting an apology. We had as
positive an outcome as was possible. Alder Hey stood up and apologised.

"The Government stood up and apologised. It gives closure but their heartache is
going on and on."

The organ scandal first came to light in 1999 when it was discovered that
Bristol Royal Infirmary took children's organs for research without first asking
loved ones. Other investigations showed Alder Hey did the same.

Other hospitals involved include Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge,
Southampton General, John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, East Kent Hospitals
Trust, St James in Leeds, Birmingham Children's, Royal Liverpool Children's,
Lewisham University Hospital and the University Hospital of Wales.

One family was told their child has been buried in a "little garden for babies".

The resting place did not exist and instead some of their organs were sold to
Europe for research.

Just last year, that hospital which we haven't named to protect the family's
identity, offered to post remains of the baby's organs still in its pathology
lab.

The families' lawyers will fight on. Fifteen test cases could be back in court
in the autumn.

Legal papers prepared by the solicitors say that the NHS believes only around 50
per cent of the families would win their case if they went to court.

One lawyer for the parents wrote of the NHS: "They are un-fortunately taking an
aggressive stance."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.


                              64 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                November 2, 2002

Parents of children may take legal action

BYLINE: By KITTY HOLLAND

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 575 words


The Parents For Justice group, which campaigns on behalf of people whose
deceased children's organs were retained by hospitals without their consent, is
considering legal action against the hospitals and individual doctors.

The group's spokeswoman, Ms Fionnuala O'Reilly, was speaking in response to
reports that Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children in Crumlin had sought legal
indemnity from all claims from parents in advance of its participation in the
Organ Retention Inquiry.

The chief executive of Our Lady's Hospital, Mr Paul Kavanagh, confirmed that the
hospital had sought indemnity "as a prudent matter of course".

Mr Kavanagh said: "We were advised to do so by our legal people. The Minister
said he had no authority to give legal indemnity and we accepted that.

" In no way though were we making our participation in the inquiry conditional
on getting indemnity. I must stress that."

Ms O'Reilly however questioned why the hospital had been advised to seek
indemnity at all "if the post-mortem practices were as routine as they told us".

Parents For Justice withdrew from the Dunne inquiry into organ retention last
month, citing "the absence of specific statutory proposals" and long delays in
getting the inquiry up and running.

Since withdrawing the group has been "left with three options", Ms O'Reilly
said.

These were to mount a public campaign with a view to having a statutory inquiry
established; to issue legal writs en masse against nominated people in
hospitals, the Minister for Health and the relevant health boards; or to press
for criminal proceedings against individual clinicians in the hospitals.

The group has employed a public relations firm to take charge of its publicity
campaign.

"Parents for Justice has never discussed the issue of litigation with the
Minister for Health but we cannot rule out the possibility of individual writs,"
said Ms O'Reilly. However, there "were clear breaches of legislation".

In many instances hospitals had failed to notify coroners of children's deaths.
In other instances, she said, parents were told their consent was not needed for
a post-mortem on their dead child as the coroner had ordered one, when in fact
the coroner had not been notified of the death. In some cases children's deaths
have never been registered by the hospitals.

"It's absolutely shocking. It is clear that there have certainly been breaches
of the law", though it remained unclear whether the alleged breaches were
perpetrated by doctors on their own initiative or whether they were effectively
hospital policy.

"We are in consultation with our legal advisers on the issue of criminal
proceedings," she said.

She also said the group may press the Attorney General for inquests into the
individual cases.

Questioning the good faith of all the relevant hospitals' participation in the
Dunne inquiry, she said Our Lady's Hospital and others had been "ducking and
diving".

"It is outrageous to think that this hospital would, for 18 months, string these
distraught parents along into co-operating with an inquiry which we believe is
going nowhere."

Mr Kavanagh, acknowledging that the hospital was taking a long time to ready
itself for the inquiry, said a "very considerable part of hospital effort" had
been directed at "trying to respond to individual requests for information" -
time which was "necessary and appropriate". He said there was no "concealment".

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


                              65 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday

Editorial: MGH legal win turns attention to construction

BYLINE: Marin Independent Journal Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 500 words


A MARIN COURT-ASSIGNED arbitrator's ruling that Marin General Hospital is the
"prevailing party" in its lawsuit with Sutter Health opens the door for the
community-run hospital to seek recovery of its legal costs.

It also ends a long legal and political battle and focuses attention on Marin
General Hospital's building plans, seismic-safety repairs and the need to muster
political support to pass a bond measure   for as much as $350 million   that
needs voter approval.

Marin General Hospital's leadership needed to exhaust its legal fight with
Sutter, which ran Marin's largest community hospital for 25 years before turning
it back to public management.

The lawsuit centered on claims that Sutter had sent millions in MGH-generated
profits to other hospitals in its statewide chain, Novato Community Hospital
among them. The lawsuit said the Marin Healthcare District, which owns the
hospital and had leased it to Sutter, had been unfairly kept in the dark about
MGH's true profits. Money raised at the Greenbrae hospital was pocketed by the
health-care corporation when it could have been used for improvements needed at
Marin General, the lawsuit claimed.

The court-appointed arbitrator rejected MGH's complaints about diverted profits
and Sutter's local board's fiduciary responsibility. But the arbitrator did rule
that Sutter violated promises that the transition in management and operations
would be seamless.

While Sutter escaped paying more than $100 million, the arbitrator did order it
to pay Marin General $11.3 million into the pension plan for Sutter workers, for
failure to adequately cooperate in the transition of information technology
systems and for underfunding the recruitment of physicians.

The latest ruling allows MGH to seek recovery of its legal costs   estimated at
several million dollars.

MGH has made every legal effort to recover money that many people believe
rightfully should have been invested into the hospital. District directors and
their legal team should have done a better job of fact-finding in negotiating
the early end of Sutter's lease in 2006. But at the time, district leaders faced
the added pressure to resolve the acrimonious battle over MGH in order to start
work on meeting state deadlines for tougher seismic-safety building standards.

The war of words might continue. Both sides claim victory, with Sutter stressing
that the ruling did not find fault with its overall financial management and
Marin General noting the court had ordered Sutter to pay the hospital more than
$11 million.

The bottom line is that Marin General went to court to recover money it felt it
was entitled to. The arbitrator ruled and district voters can't say, when asked
by MGH to raise taxes to pay for the capital bonds, "Get the money from Sutter."

Now, MGH's leaders need to focus public attention on a building plan for
modernization and meeting state earthquake-safety requirements. It's time to
turn the corner from past battles and focus on quality care and MGH's future.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marin General Hospital, seen on Wednesday, June 22, 2011, in Greenbrae,
Calif., has been under public management for a year. It was managed by Sutter
Health previously. (IJ photo/Frankie Frost) Frankie Frost
Marin General Hospital, seen on Wednesday, June 22, 2011, in Greenbrae, Calif.,
has been under public management for a year. It was managed by Sutter Health
previously. (IJ photo/Frankie Frost) Frankie Frost
An artist's rendering of the new Marin General Hospital project. Two new parking
garage are at far left. The two square buildings at far right are the new
inpatient hospital and the square building in the center is the new outpatient
ancillary services building. .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday

Corporators' bid to keep nursing homes open thwarted by PMC chief

BYLINE: Ajay Khape

LENGTH: 424  words


Stating that there is no provision in law that empowers the civic administration
to halt action initiated against those running unregistered hospitals and
nursing homes, Municipal Commissioner Kunal Kumar turned down a demand of
elected representatives to withdraw action against 80 hospitals and nursing
homes. They had been facing legal action for not registering with the civic
body.

As per the Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act, it is mandatory for a hospital
or nursing home to register it with the civic body. The PMC administration had
in 2013 identified 80 hospitals and nursing homes within PMC limits but not
registered by the civic body. The civic administration had been taking legal
action against them.

In response to a demand made to civic administration by elected representatives
to withdraw legal action against these hospitals and nursing homes, municipal
commissioner Kunal Kumar said the action was as per law. "There is no provision
in the law empowering the civic administration to stop action initiated against
hospitals and nursing homes that violated rules. The action cannot be stopped,"
he said in a written statement to the committee.

The civic health officer said the health department sought legal opinion before
turning down the demand of corporators that the action be revoked. "The PMC has
taken legal action against hospitals and nursing homes running without being
registered with the civic body. As the matter was in court, the opinion of legal
department was sought and they gave a negative opinion, which was conveyed to
the committee," he said.

He said many hospitals and nursing homes facing action have either been
registered with PMC or closed down. "There are some hospitals and nursing homes
that have run only Out Patient Department. Some have closed down," the officer
said.

As per the officer, those running hospitals or nursing homes without permission
are penalised first and if the offence is repeated strict action is taken. MNS
corporator Anil Rane, Congress corporator Mukari Algude and NCP corporator Sunil
Gogale submitted a proposal to the women and child welfare committee of PMC
urging the civic administration to withdraw action initiated against hospitals
and nursing homes running without PMC permission.

"The hospitals and nursing homes are into social service as help the civic body
during emergency situations like the swine flu outbreak. They provide service to
civic body in public interest so the PMC should take their good work into
consideration and withdraw the action," Rane said.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           December 27, 1990 Thursday

Hospital may fight $15m legal costs

BYLINE: SIMON EVANS

LENGTH: 580 words


MELBOURNE: The Alfred Hospital is almost certain to appeal against a $15 million
legal bill it has been ordered to pay on behalf of the middle-aged haemophiliac
known as PQ, who contracted AIDS six years ago after being treated at the
hospital.

Acting medical director Dr John Wiseman said there was a 90 per cent chance the
hospital would appeal to the Full Bench of the Supreme Court to have the
decision on legal costs reversed.

Hospital officials, insurance company representatives, solicitors and officials
from the Health Department of Victoria have scheduled a meeting for tomorrow to
discuss the appeal.

Dr Wiseman said the Alfred Hospital, based in the inner eastern suburb of
Prahran, was covered against damages and legal costs, but the unnamed insurance
company was "distressed" by the $15 million legal bill.

On Monday, Justice McGarvie ordered that legal costs for PQ, the Australian Red
Cross and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories be met by the Alfred Hospital.

Two days earlier, PQ was awarded more than $870,000 by a Supreme Court Jury as
compensation for pain, suffering, medical expenses and loss of income, after he
was treated with a blood product at the hospital.

The trial lasted more than 90 days.

PQ was the first Australian to successfully sue over AIDS infection and the
landmark decision is expected to open a floodgate of multimillion-dollar damages
claims by up to 400 haemophiliacs infected during treatment at hospitals
throughout the country.

PQ, who is married with children, launched his legal action in July against the
Australian Red Cross Society, the Alfred Hospital and the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories, claiming it was through their negligence that he became HIV
positive late in 1984.

But the Alfred Hospital was found to be the only negligent party.

"These costs are quite a slug," Dr Wiseman said.

"Over the next day, we'll have a more exact idea of the final bill, but $15
million appears to be a reliable estimate.

"The insurance company is experiencing significant discomfort, to say the least,
at the prospect of such costs.

"Unfortunately, it is the taxpayer who ultimately will have to pay because the
Health Department pays the insurance premiums for public hospitals.

"Considering that there still are questions and uncertainties about the case,
there will be a need to look at an appeal," Dr Wiseman said.

Chief general manager of the Victorian Health Department, Mr Tim Daly, said
insurance policies managed by the department covered all public hospitals and
community health centres.

"We don't have simply one policy with one company, but a series of policies
underwritten by several companies," Mr Daly said.

In ADELAIDE, a senior medical welfare worker said there had been no significant
increase in the incidence of South Australian haemophiliacs contracting the AIDS
virus.

Haemophilia Foundation of Australia senior vice-president Mr Alan Ewart said
fewer than five haemophiliacs of the 150 in the State were suffering from HIV
infections.

The progress of the disease among haemophiliacs had virtually stopped in 1984
when the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in Canberra stopped supplying
contaminated blood.

Mr Ewart said there were 350 to 400 haemophiliacs throughout Australia infected
with the HIV virus.

Mr Ewart said he was not aware of any planned or pending South Australian civil
claims arising from the Victorian Supreme Court decision.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              68 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           December 27, 1990 Thursday

Hospital may fight $15m legal costs

BYLINE: SIMON EVANS

LENGTH: 580 words


MELBOURNE: The Alfred Hospital is almost certain to appeal against a $15 million
legal bill it has been ordered to pay on behalf of the middle-aged haemophiliac
known as PQ, who contracted AIDS six years ago after being treated at the
hospital.

Acting medical director Dr John Wiseman said there was a 90 per cent chance the
hospital would appeal to the Full Bench of the Supreme Court to have the
decision on legal costs reversed.

Hospital officials, insurance company representatives, solicitors and officials
from the Health Department of Victoria have scheduled a meeting for tomorrow to
discuss the appeal.

Dr Wiseman said the Alfred Hospital, based in the inner eastern suburb of
Prahran, was covered against damages and legal costs, but the unnamed insurance
company was "distressed" by the $15 million legal bill.

On Monday, Justice McGarvie ordered that legal costs for PQ, the Australian Red
Cross and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories be met by the Alfred Hospital.

Two days earlier, PQ was awarded more than $870,000 by a Supreme Court Jury as
compensation for pain, suffering, medical expenses and loss of income, after he
was treated with a blood product at the hospital.

The trial lasted more than 90 days.

PQ was the first Australian to successfully sue over AIDS infection and the
landmark decision is expected to open a floodgate of multimillion-dollar damages
claims by up to 400 haemophiliacs infected during treatment at hospitals
throughout the country.

PQ, who is married with children, launched his legal action in July against the
Australian Red Cross Society, the Alfred Hospital and the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories, claiming it was through their negligence that he became HIV
positive late in 1984.

But the Alfred Hospital was found to be the only negligent party.

"These costs are quite a slug," Dr Wiseman said.

"Over the next day, we'll have a more exact idea of the final bill, but $15
million appears to be a reliable estimate.

"The insurance company is experiencing significant discomfort, to say the least,
at the prospect of such costs.

"Unfortunately, it is the taxpayer who ultimately will have to pay because the
Health Department pays the insurance premiums for public hospitals.

"Considering that there still are questions and uncertainties about the case,
there will be a need to look at an appeal," Dr Wiseman said.

Chief general manager of the Victorian Health Department, Mr Tim Daly, said
insurance policies managed by the department covered all public hospitals and
community health centres.

"We don't have simply one policy with one company, but a series of policies
underwritten by several companies," Mr Daly said.

In ADELAIDE, a senior medical welfare worker said there had been no significant
increase in the incidence of South Australian haemophiliacs contracting the AIDS
virus.

Haemophilia Foundation of Australia senior vice-president Mr Alan Ewart said
fewer than five haemophiliacs of the 150 in the State were suffering from HIV
infections.

The progress of the disease among haemophiliacs had virtually stopped in 1984
when the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in Canberra stopped supplying
contaminated blood.

Mr Ewart said there were 350 to 400 haemophiliacs throughout Australia infected
with the HIV virus.

Mr Ewart said he was not aware of any planned or pending South Australian civil
claims arising from the Victorian Supreme Court decision.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              69 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       May 28, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: "Five Strokes" Lead Law "Five Into the" Light
"Tomorrow"

LENGTH: 1151  words


May 28 -- In recent years, Shangsi County People's Court "Care tomorrow, the
Franco-Prussian first" Youth Legal Education Program as an opportunity to "for
children, for the future, for hope" for the idea, will strengthen the juvenile
legal education, shaping adolescent behavior norms, maintenance of youth the
legitimate rights and interests as an important task, focus on good legal
education and daily education, school education combining articles, build a
working mechanism normalization of legal education, long-term working mechanism
of juvenile justice, legal education work platform diversification comprehensive
education system, to promote the county's young people to enhance the legal
awareness, improve legal literacy, prevent and reduce juvenile crime, to further
safeguard the legitimate interests of young people make a positive contribution.



Organized "Legal classroom," so the law "ear." School students to acquire
knowledge of the park, but also universal law judge positions, since 2010, the
hospital will send a high level of business, strong communication skills to all
secondary schools young judge as vice president of the legal system, in addition
to providing education to school minors outside the legal measures, but also to
"a growing concern spiritual sowing a bright future" as the theme, regularly or
irregularly held "legal classroom" activities, through a combination of legal
interpretation and case studies, the students revealed due to the weak legal
concepts and embarked on the road of serious criminal damage, guide students to
continue to enhance the legal awareness. The hospital passed "ruled by law"
concept, but also by the school's welcome and praise. For secondary schools
located in remote rural and inaccessible features, the hospital started in 2012
is still "legal class township campus", went to nine schools held in "Legal
classroom", 75% of the county's high school coverage, nearly 8,000 students
benefit from it.

Implementation of the "Open Day" so that the law "eyes." People's Court as the
final barrier to maintain fairness and justice, to resolve social
contradictions, the most faithful executor of the law, the court has become the
perception into the law, an effective way to learn the law. 2012 onwards, the
hospital to create a "sun of justice" demonstration units as the carrier,
vigorously carry out "public open day" activities, the initiative to invite the
students to visit the court filing hall, round the courtroom, Liao Wei heroic
deeds exhibition rooms and other hardware facilities and witnessed the courtroom
scene to attend the trial, and thus have a better understanding of the law, the
courts have a better perception of judges has been further recognized. Since
2012, the hospital held "open day" 12 times, so that the angle of more than 600
students and more feel the atmosphere of the court, direct contact with the
judges to decide cases, prompting them to consciously establish legal awareness,
enhance legal awareness, and improve consciously resist crime awareness and
ability to protect themselves.

Carry out "moot court," so that the law "into the brain." Young people desire
new things is always full of Discovery and plasticity, legal advocacy for
innovative models that popularization activities to achieve a multiplier effect,
the hospital in April 2014 with the County Board of Education, the county
Women's Federation, Mission County and other departments jointly launched "Moot
Court into the campus" activities for students to play judges, prosecutors,
lawyers, bailiffs and other roles analog hearing the case, to enhance the study
of law in the nurture, respect for law, law-abiding awareness, prevention at
source, reduce juvenile crime groups . Currently, the hospital has successively
to the county school, county national high school to carry out "moot court into
the campus" activities, including nearly 200 female students in the class,
including Yao more than 2,000 students got a good legal education. Since the
Franco-Prussian significant effect, the hospital plans to all secondary schools
in the county during the year were carried out more than once, "Moot Court"
campaign, carried out at least once each month after the Moot Court into the
campus annual campaign to become institutionalized.

Strengthen departmental interaction, so that the law "into the heart." All
along, the hospital has always insisted the trial in adolescents' education,
supplemented by punishment "approach, focusing on both the legal deterrent for
juvenile offenders, but also to strengthen the warmth of probation for juvenile
offenders, in order to raise awareness of the law and reduce the recurrence of
crime rate. Therefore, the hospital not only implement the "Roundtable court"
system and the "helpers visit" system, still in individual cases, particularly
invite the county Women's Federation, Communist Youth League, schools and other
departments to the jury the identity of participants in the proceedings or
participate in court proceedings, with its rich youth work experience to guide
the correct treatment of juvenile offenders fault, regain confidence in life.
Such as May of this year, the hospital together in accepting a minor robbery
case, that the defendant Weimou chronic lack of family discipline, there is no
legal guardian of the child, after full consultation with Weimou opinion, invite
the county as acting deputy secretary of the Communist Youth League guardian and
after the legal situation in hand with patience and persuasion, let Weimou
mistakes and eventually reached the confession, the purpose regimens achieved
double-effect unification of the legal and social effects.

Build an interactive platform for the law "to start." As information technology
and network of depth, computers, mobile phones and other new media is rapidly
becoming an important means of youngsters exploring new knowledge, but also
became the court an important platform for dissemination of legal knowledge.
2010, 2012, the hospital has established a portal and official microblogging
minors in their spare time, as long as the click of a mouse you can browse the
courts dynamic case Letters, referee instruments and other information, but also
through online trial Graphic Live, watch the whole court case a major case. In
2014, the hospital and public micro-channel came into being, and adds real-time
interactivity, young people studying legal issues encountered in life, can be in
the "You asked me answer" questions the plate in a message, micro-channel
management After collecting and then answer the question classification before a
judge to make legal work more convenient, timely, and effective. According to
incomplete statistics, hospital information platform above three were released
in 2013, more than 300 kinds of information, live court cases 33 times,
attracting more than 1,600 long-term concern fans.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       May 28, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: "Five Strokes" Lead Law "Five Into the" Light
"Tomorrow"

LENGTH: 1151  words


May 28 -- In recent years, Shangsi County People's Court "Care tomorrow, the
Franco-Prussian first" Youth Legal Education Program as an opportunity to "for
children, for the future, for hope" for the idea, will strengthen the juvenile
legal education, shaping adolescent behavior norms, maintenance of youth the
legitimate rights and interests as an important task, focus on good legal
education and daily education, school education combining articles, build a
working mechanism normalization of legal education, long-term working mechanism
of juvenile justice, legal education work platform diversification comprehensive
education system, to promote the county's young people to enhance the legal
awareness, improve legal literacy, prevent and reduce juvenile crime, to further
safeguard the legitimate interests of young people make a positive contribution.



Organized "Legal classroom," so the law "ear." School students to acquire
knowledge of the park, but also universal law judge positions, since 2010, the
hospital will send a high level of business, strong communication skills to all
secondary schools young judge as vice president of the legal system, in addition
to providing education to school minors outside the legal measures, but also to
"a growing concern spiritual sowing a bright future" as the theme, regularly or
irregularly held "legal classroom" activities, through a combination of legal
interpretation and case studies, the students revealed due to the weak legal
concepts and embarked on the road of serious criminal damage, guide students to
continue to enhance the legal awareness. The hospital passed "ruled by law"
concept, but also by the school's welcome and praise. For secondary schools
located in remote rural and inaccessible features, the hospital started in 2012
is still "legal class township campus", went to nine schools held in "Legal
classroom", 75% of the county's high school coverage, nearly 8,000 students
benefit from it.

Implementation of the "Open Day" so that the law "eyes." People's Court as the
final barrier to maintain fairness and justice, to resolve social
contradictions, the most faithful executor of the law, the court has become the
perception into the law, an effective way to learn the law. 2012 onwards, the
hospital to create a "sun of justice" demonstration units as the carrier,
vigorously carry out "public open day" activities, the initiative to invite the
students to visit the court filing hall, round the courtroom, Liao Wei heroic
deeds exhibition rooms and other hardware facilities and witnessed the courtroom
scene to attend the trial, and thus have a better understanding of the law, the
courts have a better perception of judges has been further recognized. Since
2012, the hospital held "open day" 12 times, so that the angle of more than 600
students and more feel the atmosphere of the court, direct contact with the
judges to decide cases, prompting them to consciously establish legal awareness,
enhance legal awareness, and improve consciously resist crime awareness and
ability to protect themselves.

Carry out "moot court," so that the law "into the brain." Young people desire
new things is always full of Discovery and plasticity, legal advocacy for
innovative models that popularization activities to achieve a multiplier effect,
the hospital in April 2014 with the County Board of Education, the county
Women's Federation, Mission County and other departments jointly launched "Moot
Court into the campus" activities for students to play judges, prosecutors,
lawyers, bailiffs and other roles analog hearing the case, to enhance the study
of law in the nurture, respect for law, law-abiding awareness, prevention at
source, reduce juvenile crime groups . Currently, the hospital has successively
to the county school, county national high school to carry out "moot court into
the campus" activities, including nearly 200 female students in the class,
including Yao more than 2,000 students got a good legal education. Since the
Franco-Prussian significant effect, the hospital plans to all secondary schools
in the county during the year were carried out more than once, "Moot Court"
campaign, carried out at least once each month after the Moot Court into the
campus annual campaign to become institutionalized.

Strengthen departmental interaction, so that the law "into the heart." All
along, the hospital has always insisted the trial in adolescents' education,
supplemented by punishment "approach, focusing on both the legal deterrent for
juvenile offenders, but also to strengthen the warmth of probation for juvenile
offenders, in order to raise awareness of the law and reduce the recurrence of
crime rate. Therefore, the hospital not only implement the "Roundtable court"
system and the "helpers visit" system, still in individual cases, particularly
invite the county Women's Federation, Communist Youth League, schools and other
departments to the jury the identity of participants in the proceedings or
participate in court proceedings, with its rich youth work experience to guide
the correct treatment of juvenile offenders fault, regain confidence in life.
Such as May of this year, the hospital together in accepting a minor robbery
case, that the defendant Weimou chronic lack of family discipline, there is no
legal guardian of the child, after full consultation with Weimou opinion, invite
the county as acting deputy secretary of the Communist Youth League guardian and
after the legal situation in hand with patience and persuasion, let Weimou
mistakes and eventually reached the confession, the purpose regimens achieved
double-effect unification of the legal and social effects.

Build an interactive platform for the law "to start." As information technology
and network of depth, computers, mobile phones and other new media is rapidly
becoming an important means of youngsters exploring new knowledge, but also
became the court an important platform for dissemination of legal knowledge.
2010, 2012, the hospital has established a portal and official microblogging
minors in their spare time, as long as the click of a mouse you can browse the
courts dynamic case Letters, referee instruments and other information, but also
through online trial Graphic Live, watch the whole court case a major case. In
2014, the hospital and public micro-channel came into being, and adds real-time
interactivity, young people studying legal issues encountered in life, can be in
the "You asked me answer" questions the plate in a message, micro-channel
management After collecting and then answer the question classification before a
judge to make legal work more convenient, timely, and effective. According to
incomplete statistics, hospital information platform above three were released
in 2013, more than 300 kinds of information, live court cases 33 times,
attracting more than 1,600 long-term concern fans.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            August 19, 2014 Tuesday

Halifax CEO: Not aware of physician contract concerns until subpoena

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 939  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel says he didn't know until a
subpoena was served that a compliance officer had concerns about the integrity
of physician contracts and other potential legal issues at the hospital.

Ultimately, Elin Baklid-Kunz would file suit in federal court as a whistleblower
costing the 678-bed public hospital system about $120 million in settlement and
legal expenses in the five-year litigation battle.

Feasel said the whistleblower never directly brought her concerns to his
attention before filing suit.

"I really didn't know of the nature of what was being done and what was being
alleged until we received the subpoena," said Feasel, who was named CEO in
January 2005.

Hospital officials conducted their second of three town hall meetings Tuesday,
this one at Halifax Health's France Tower conference room, to tell their side of
the story behind the settlement. They deny wrongdoing and have taken aim at the
federal government's enforcement approach, calling some of its health care
regulations arcane, unclear and draconian.

Marlan Wilbanks, an attorney who represented Baklid-Kunz, said if the system had
been working properly senior leaders at Halifax Health should have been aware of
his client's concerns.

"There were major problems that anyone who is actively involved in managing a
hospital should have certainly been informed about," Wilbanks said.

Hospital officials say they did nothing wrong and were only trying to structure
agreements in a way to keep qualified doctors treating indigent patients. The
whistleblower and her attorneys argue the hospital didn't do enough to stop
billing practices and employment procedures that drive up the nation's health
care bill.

Baklid-Kunz and her attorneys received $20.8 million of the settlement money for
reporting the matter to the federal government, a larger purchaser of health
care through Medicare and other programs.

The hospital has released a timeline of how negotiations and the case unfolded.
Baklid-Kunz filed her lawsuit in June 2009 after first raising concerns with
in-house legal counsel and her supervisor. The first subpoenas were served in
December 2009, which is when Feasel said he became aware, and the hospital's
seven- member board was then notified a month later in a closed litigation
session. The suit was unsealed in September 2010, and the hospital was made
aware of the full scope of the allegations.

From then on, hospital officials relied on advice from their attorneys, which
included one of the nation's leading health care law firms: McDermott, Will &
Emery, Feasel said.

"When I start playing lawyer, we are all in trouble," he said. "I say that
somewhat tongue-in-cheek. That's not my job. My job is not to provide legal
advice to our organization."

Dave Davidson, the hospital's chief general counsel, resigned effective Oct. 1,
although he didn't give a specific reason why.

Davidson told hospital commissioners in a meeting he took "full ownership" of
the contracts at the center of the suit.

The suit was broken into two cases.

The first, which was settled for $85 million in March of this year, accused the
hospital of violating the Stark Law when crafting agreements with six cancer
doctors and three neurosurgeons.

That statute prohibits paying doctors based on referrals and volume.

The U.S. Department of Justice joined the suit in September 2011, arguing such
contracts can induce doctors to perform unnecessary tests and procedures.

The second case, which the Justice Department did not join, focused on
allegations that the hospital overcharged Medicare by unnecessarily admitting
patients for short-stays, instead of billing at a lower observation rate.

That part of the case was settled last month for $1 million, and hospital
officials say they "basically won" that part of the suit and settled to avoid
legal expenses.

Over the five-year case, the hospital spent about $24 million on its own legal
fees and paid about $10 million in the whistleblower's attorney fees.

The financial damages could have been much worse, hospital officials said during
a presentation and question-and-answer session at the hospital's France Tower.

A Justice Department spokeswoman could not be reached for comment Tuesday to
give its perspective on negotiations.

On July 11, 2011, the Justice Department wanted $185 million to settle the
matter, said Ann Martorano, Halifax Health's chief operating officer -- much
higher than the $86 million the hospital would eventually settle for.

With the belief they did nothing wrong based on outside legal advice, hospital
officials declined the initial offer.

"It was absolutely ludicrous to us at the time," Martorano said. "We said,
'We'll fight this.' "

A milestone, though, happened in October 2013 when a court ordered South
Carolina's Tuomey Regional Medical Center to pay $237 million in a case
involving Stark Law allegations that sent shock waves through the hospital
industry

At that point, hospital officials and their lawyers started considering a
settlement.

The hospital faced a potential judgment of $1.14 billion.

The Justice Department's seemingly unlimited resources and ability to impose
massive penalties played a role in the hospital's decision to settle even though
it didn't think it did anything wrong, Feasel said.

"I've learned when you are dealing with the government, and they tell you you
are wrong, you are wrong," he said.

About 70 people attended Tuesday's meeting at Halifax and were largely
supportive of the administration.

The final town hall meeting will be at 4 p.m. today at the Mary McLeod Bethune
Performing Arts Center, 698 W. International Speedway Blvd.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              72 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              July 21, 2014 Monday

Halifax Health board votes to end whistleblower lawsuit

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher; Jeffrey Cassady, Skyler Swisher & Jeffrey Cassady
skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com jeffrey.cassady@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 893  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- After five years, a fiercely fought legal battle that cost
Halifax Health more than $110 million in settlement and legal costs is drawing
to a close.

The Halifax Health Board of Commissioners voted unanimously Monday to settle
remaining claims in a whistleblower lawsuit for $1 million plus $4.5 million in
legal fees for the whistleblower's attorneys. That's on top of an $85 million
settlement in March and about $29.5 million in legal fees.

Officials at the public hospital say their decision to settle was not an
admission of wrongdoing but to minimize potential legal risk.

"We are disappointed in paying anything for providing exceptional care, but we
are looking forward to putting this behind us and moving forward," Halifax
Health CEO Jeff Feasel said in a prepared statement. "Unfortunately, in
situations like this, avoiding future appeals and legal fees is the right
business decision."

Although parties have agreed to the settlement terms, a filing still must be
entered in federal court in Orlando to dismiss the case, hospital officials
said.

The board also voted Monday night to evaluate the performance of the chief
executive officer and legal counsel, as well as hold town hall meetings to
answer questions from the public. No dates have been set.

John Johnson, chairman of the board, said the evaluations are routine but will
consider leadership's handling of the lawsuit.

"We want to look at the performance of the CEO, legal counsel and management
during this difficult time," said Johnson, who also serves as president of
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. "We are very pleased to bring a close to
the litigation. We want to focus on the core mission of the hospital, which is
providing great health care to all those in need in the community."

While hospital officials deny wrongdoing, whistleblower Elin Baklid-Kunz and her
attorney Marlan Wilbanks argued the hospital turned a blind eye to billing
practices and physician contracts that cost the cash-strapped Medicare program
money. Contracts rewarded six cancer doctors and three neurosurgeons based on
their productivity, giving them incentives to do more procedures and tests that
could potentially harm patients, they argued. Those contracts violated the
federal Stark Law, according to the lawsuit.

A five-year corporate integrity agreement required by the settlement will give
the federal government greater oversight into the hospital's operations, a key
victory for the whistleblower, Wilbanks said.

"For the next five years, the government is going to work every day at Halifax,"
he said. "It won't be over tomorrow. The effects will be felt every day for at
least the next five years."

Baklid-Kunz sued in 2009, and two years later, the U.S. Department of Justice
intervened on some of her claims. As the dust settles, Baklid-Kunz and her
attorneys will recoup $20.8 million of the settlement amount. Baklid-Kunz is
still employed by Halifax Health as director of physician services.

The latest portion of the case settled by the board Monday involved allegations
the hospital admitted patients for short hospital stays who should have been
kept for observation and billed at a lower rate.

In a prepared statement, Dr. Sandra Buchanan, president of the hospital's
medical staff, said deciding when to admit a patient "is a tough call that can
only be made by a physician." In a July 1 ruling, Judge Gregory Presnell wrote
it was undisputed Halifax could have billed Medicare for the services it
rendered to patients, but the question was over how much the hospital should
have received from the government.

"While we are also disappointed that any settlement had to be paid, we are
pleased that the judge agreed with our continued assertions that no
inappropriate care was given to any patient and look forward to moving past this
issue and focusing our attention where it belongs ... on the patients who come
to us in need," Buchanan said.

The meeting on Monday took only about 30 minutes, and little public discussion
occurred. In an interview after the vote, Johnson said attorneys initially
seemed optimistic about their ability to defend the hospital if the case went to
trial. Then about a year ago, the attorneys told board members the hospital's
best option was to settle. At one point, potential damages were estimated to
exceed $1 billion.

"We were not willing to put the hospital at that level of risk," Johnson said.
"The hospital didn't have any choice other than to settle these cases."

The hospital spent more than $24 million in legal fees and costs fighting the
lawsuit, using four different law firms and paying additional lawyers for its
employees and doctors. Plus, the hospital previously paid $5.4 million to the
whistleblower's attorneys, according to court documents.

As hospital commissioners weighed the matter, a judge ordered another health
care provider, Sumter, S.C.,-based Tuomey Healthcare System, to pay about $237
million in October after a federal jury found the system violated the same laws
Halifax Health was accused of violating.

Halifax board Vice Chairman Glenn Ritchey, a former Daytona Beach mayor, says
the hospital's legal troubles call for a possible refinement of policies and
procedures, although he didn't elaborate what that might entail.

"Now that we are through this, we're the poster child for understanding it," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              73 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             June 24, 2014 Tuesday

Texans Tell Their Hospitals: Abortion Is Health Care

LENGTH: 1445  words


Hospital boards, executives, and hiring committees across Texas are now tasked
with answering a question they have never before been asked: which Texas doctors
are qualified to provide legal abortion care?
This is the result of one of the four provisions of HB 2, the omnibus
anti-abortion law passed in a second special legislative session last summer
that drew thousands of Texans to their state capitol in Austin to speak up for
reproductive rights. In part, the law requires doctors who provide legal
abortion care to obtain admitting privileges at hospitals within 30 miles of
where they perform procedures, or prescribe medication to induce abortion.


According to two Dallas OB-GYNs, at least one Texas hospital has already
succumbed to outside pressure from anti-choice activists to revoke admitting
privileges granted to doctors who perform abortions.
In response, one Austin woman is asking her fellow Texans to remind their
community hospitals and doctors that abortion is health care, and the public
supports safe, legal abortion care.
Sarah Tuttle, an astrophysicist who also serves on the board of the Lilith Fund
for Reproductive Justice, calls her effort a "community campaign" meant to
encourage medical professionals to see their abortion-providing fellows as,
well, the professional peers that they are.
"Laws like this move decisions about fundamental health care from the public
purvey into the private purvey," Tuttle told RH Reality Check. Her website,
Abortion Is Healthcare, contains sample letters that she's encouraging her
fellow Texans to send to their own OB-GYNs, telling them: "It disappoints me to
see our abortion providers, even when they are privately supported, publicly
abandoned."
For many Texas hospitals, the decision to grant admitting privileges to doctors
is more about the business those doctors might be able to generate than a
definitive statement about the quality or skill of the doctors themselves.
Amy Hagstrom Miller, who owns a group of abortion-providing health centers in
Texas, Minnesota, and Maryland, said earlier this year that she was forced to
close her South Texas clinic when doctors in McAllen, near the U.S.-Mexico
border, failed to stand up in support of the abortion providers who worked in
her facility there.
Without vocal support from the medical community-many members of which, Hagstrom
Miller said, were afraid to come out in support of abortion rights despite
referring their patients to her doctors when they needed legal abortion
care-doctors are often unable to secure the sponsorships and recommendations
they need to obtain privileges at hospitals.

"The thing I'm enraged about is the absolute silence from doctors who referred
their patients for abortion," Hagstrom Miller told RH Reality Check in February,
just before HB 2 forced her to close her facilities in McAllen and in Beaumont,
Texas.
Hospitals themselves, and the doctors, executives, board members, and staff who
are tasked with granting or revoking doctors' admitting privileges, can be
susceptible to coercion and pressure from a vocal anti-choice community that has
threatened to picket and protest at hospitals which grant admitting privileges
to abortion providers.
Earlier this year, a Dallas hospital suddenly revoked admitting privileges to
two abortion providers, telling the doctors in a letter that because they
provide legal abortion care at offsite, non-hospital locations, their
affiliation with University General Hospital Dallas would create "significant
exposure and damages to UGHD's reputation within the community."
That letter was written and signed by University General Hospital CEO Charles
Schuetz, a Republican political donor. As an entity, University General Hospital
, L.P. has donated $105,000 to four different Republican campaigns, including
the David Dewhurst Committee-Dewhurst, Texas' outgoing lieutenant governor,
famously tweeted last summer that shuttering all but a handful of abortion
providers in the state, rather than increasing the safety of abortion
procedures, was the express intent of the omnibus anti-abortion legislation his
party ushered through.
Schuetz's language concerning his hospital's "reputation" mirrors language used
by Mark Crutcher, an anti-choice North Texas man who told an anti-choice blogger
this month that his organization, Life Dynamics, has sent "a letter to every
hospital administrator in Texas." Crutcher's letter tells hospitals, in part:
the competence and character of practitioners who work at abortion clinics is
inevitably beneath the standards insisted upon by most hospitals; hospitals do
not want to have their reputations damaged by the stigma that accompanies both
abortion and the people who do them ...
In November 2013, Life Dynamics also sent a graphic mailer entitled "Hired
Killers" to Texas doctors, calling abortion providers "the most prolific killing
machine the world has ever known," and alleging that they are "out to recruit"
their fellow medical professionals.
University General Hospital Dallas settled out of court with the abortion
providers whose privileges it revoked, after the doctors sued the hospital on
the basis of a state law that bars hospitals from discriminating against
physicians who provide legal abortion care. The doctors have retained their
admitting privileges, though both will be forced to stop providing abortion care
at their clinics this September, when the part of HB 2 that requires abortion
facilities to operate as hospital-like ambulatory surgical centers goes into
effect, leaving a total of six legal abortion facilities open in the state.

Despite the overwhelming safety of legal abortion as a medical procedure-14
times safer than childbirth, aspiration abortion performed before 13 weeks'
gestation has a less than 0.5 percent complication rate for complications that
require additional surgical procedures and/or hospitalization, according to the
National Abortion Federation-Texas law now requires abortion providers be
singled out for scrutiny by the hospital staff and executives, without whose
approval Texas doctors cannot perform legal abortion care in off-site, non-
hospital clinics.
While state law governs where, and in what type of facility, a wide range of
medical procedures may be performed, abortion providers are the only doctors in
the state who are uniquely required to have admitting privileges in order to
perform this one procedure-whether that involves prescribing medication that
induces abortion, or performing an in-clinic abortion.
Mainstream medical associations opposed HB 2's admitting privileges requirement
when conservative legislators proposed it last year; while lawmakers claimed it
would raise the standard of care for people who seek legal abortions in Texas,
the Texas Medical Association, the Texas Hospital Association, and the American
Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), did not agree. In fact, ACOG
wrote an open letter to Texas legislators opposing the requirements, stating
that Texas' new abortion restrictions would "jeopardize women's health care and
interfere with medical practice and the patient-physician relationship."
With her Abortion Is Healthcare initiative, Sarah Tuttle told RH Reality Check
that she hopes to remind doctors and hospitals that their patients-the people
who pay their bills-support legal abortion care.
"It's easier for health-care providers to say they're already so wrapped up in
regular lawsuits from regular malpractice suits, it has made the medical
providers exceptionally risk-averse," said Tuttle. "When they don't hear
community support, it's very easy to say, 'We can't [publicly support abortion
care] right now.'"
Tuttle is encouraging Texans to host letter-writing parties in their homes and
worship communities, and to send those letters to their private physicians,
general practitioners, and OB-GYNs.
"I'd like us to start reaching out to our everyday OB-GYNs, to hospitals, to
dentists, to all the people who support that whole medical infrastructure,"
Tuttle said. She herself is starting in Austin, where she lives, asking the dean
of the new University of Texas medical school, which is affiliated with the
Seton Catholic medical system, to "strive to give our medical students a robust
education including compassionate reproductive health care."

"This isn't about peer pressure from the outside," Tuttle said, but about
"having a letter writing group at your church or temple or group of friends,
saying 'This is important to us, and I care about what happens in my
community.'"
© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                              June 17, 2013 Monday

Las Cruces residents seek legal opinion on proposed hospital plan

BYLINE: By Steve Ramirez / sramirez@lcsun-news.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 918 words


Review a copy of a brochure Galichia Hospital Group, LLC gave tocity officials.
Review a copy ofthe agenda for the June 25 Planning and Zoning Commission
meeting.
Review a copy ofthe rezoning application filed with the city of Las Cruces
Community Development Department.
Visit thePark Ridge website .
LAS CRUCES - Efforts will continue by some Las Crucens to obtain a legal opinion
about a planned hospital on a portion of the 110-acre former Las Cruces Country
Club, despite comments last week from a Las Cruces developer who said the
facility would not be physician-owned.

Las Crucen Connie Potter, who has been a registered nurse for 45 years, and a
former trauma system manager in Oregon, said a move to obtain a legal opinion
from the lawfirm of Alston and Bird, LLP, of Atlanta and Washington, D.C. will
continue.

"The legal firm of Alston and Bird, LLP, has been retained by the Country Club
Neighborhood Association and an analysis of this hospital proposal and its
structure will be forthcoming shortly," Potter said Saturday. "Thomas Scully,
former director of Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and (now) a
partner of the firm, directed this issue to Rob Stone, an attorney with the law
firm that specializes in regulatory law, and a team of lawyers will conduct the
analysis."

John Stevens, president of the Country Club Neighborhood Association, a
homeowners group whose residents live near the proposed development, said the
association supports efforts to get the legal opinion, which association members
hope to provide to city officials by the time the Las Cruces Planning and Zoning
Commission meets, at 6 p.m. June 25 at City Hall to consider a rezoning
application for 30.745 acres where the hospital would be built.

The Country Club Neighborhood Association (CCNA) met earlier this week and
approved motions to pursue the legal opinion, and to formally state it is not
necessarily opposed to redevelopment of the former country club property under
certain conditions.

"CCNA voted on, and passed a motion that we are in favor of the Las Cruces
Country Club property being developed in a sensible manner," Stevens said. "What
we are not in favor of is wall-to-wall in-fill with a hospital, commercial
buildings, helicopters, noise, and traffic, to mention a few things, in a
residential neighborhood."

Potter has said the proposed 42-bed hospital would violate the Affordable Care
Act, also known as Obamacare. Potter has worked extensively in the medical and
health care fields. She is a former administrator of the Emergency Room and
trauma at R.E. Thomason Hospital and UCI Medical Center, both in El Paso.Potter
is also the immediate past chief executive officer of the Trauma Center
Association of America - formerly the National Foundation for Trauma Care."I
stand behind my position that this structure meets the criteria that is
forbidden under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Section 6001,"
Potter said. "This has already been tested in the (U.S.) Fifth District Court
and cannot be built under CMS. This position has also been confirmed in an email
from staff at Senator Tom Udall's office."

The legal opinion sought is to help clarify whether a proposed physician-owned
hospital could operate in Las Cruces. City officials were presented with a
brochure from Galichia Hospital Group, LLC that indicated plans for a 42 bed
full-service hospital "partnering with over 20 local physicians who are
investing in the real estate and equipment."

However, Robert Pofahl, president of Park Ridge Properties, LLLP, said in an
email sent to the Sun-News that no such plans exist, and there are no plans to
recruit as many as 20 physicians to invest in the facility.

"There is no need for any opinion since there will be no physician ownership of
the hospital or its management or operating company," Pofahl said.

He added, "The impetus for the proposed hospital was the opportunity to develop
an integrated health care and retirement campus served by a small, 42-bed
general hospital providing patients a menu of health care options in a campus
setting, and physicians a high degree of input on the quality and delivery of
health care.

"The hospital is only one component of the health care campus that will include
assisted living, memory care, rehab, fitness, sports medicine and other wellness
services delivered in a resort campus setting. Residents and retirees of Park
Ridge and surrounding neighborhoods will have the benefit of on-site health
services as well as retail, restaurants and other services all provided in a
walk-able, pedestrian-friendly environment."

Repeated attempts to reach Dr. Joseph Galichia, CEO and co-founder of the
company planning to forward the hospital proposal, have been unsuccessful.

Steve Ramirez can be reached at 575-541-5452. Follow him on Twitter
@SteveRamirez6


Legal opinion

Some residents will go forward with plans to obtain a legal opinion regarding
the ability of a proposed hospital to operate on slightly more than 30 acres at
the former Las Cruces Country Club

Thursday, a Las Cruces developer said the hospital would not be physician-owned,
but rather a small, privately owned general hospital

An application to rezone 30.745 acres from R-1a, single-family residential
medium density, to C-3, commercial high intensity, has been filed with the Las
Cruces' Community Development Department

The Las Cruces Planning and Zoning Commission will meet at 6 p.m. June 25, at
City Hall, 700 N. Main St., to consider the requested zone change

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 Las Cruces Sun-News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   September 2, 1987, Wednesday, City Edition

All Children's may join Tampa General // Hospitals may unite in legal fight
against building of new center

BYLINE: DIANE RADO

SECTION: METRO AND STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



ST. PETERSBURG - For nearly a year, the fight over a children's    hospital in
Hillsborough County has been a cross-bay battle between St.    Petersburg and
Tampa.

     Suddenly, some St. Petersburg and Tampa officials are on the same    side.


     All Children's Hospital in St. Petersburg and Tampa General    Hospital are
opposed to the construction of a children's hospital in    Tampa. And the two
hospitals now are talking about joining forces in a    legal fight against the
new center.

     Attorneys for both hospitals "are comparing their legal avenues    ... If
there are compatible areas, we'd consider working with them    (Tampa General),"
Sexton said.      Tampa General officials announced Monday that they will ask
for a    state hearing to protest the 100-bed Tampa Children's Hospital. If the
    hearing isn't granted, the officials said, they would be willing to
appeal in court.

     "All Children's is prepared to take the same position," said    Ralph Dell,
attorney for the Hillsborough County Hospital Authority,    which runs Tampa
General.

     Sexton said Tuesday that All Children's has not made a final    decision on
whether to join Tampa General in petitioning for a hearing.

 But All Children's already has received permission from its board to    take
legal action, if necessary, against the new hospital, and "We    feel like we
are going to," Sexton said.

     Even if All Children's ends up taking a separate legal route,    Sexton
said, "We are with Tampa General in the fact that we are      against the new
hospital."

     That hasn't always been the case.

     All Children's and St. Petersburg officials have been fighting the    new
hospital since at least the beginning of the year. At the time, the    new
hospital was to be built at the University of South Florida Tampa    campus. St.
Petersburg officials feared that the new hospital would    drain patients,
donations and medical support from All Children's, a    USF research and
teaching center.

     Tampa General had not opposed the project. In fact, its chief
administrator sent the state a letter of support for the new children's
hospital.

     Tampa General President Newell France figured that a hospital based    at a
public university with a medical college might take away some of    the poor
patients that cost Tampa General money.

     Tampa General changed it mind when the proposed children's hospital
recently changed locations because of fund-raising and site approval
problems.

     The hospital now is planned for the Buffalo Avenue campus of St.
Joseph's Hospital - Tampa General's arch rival - so there is a threat    that it
could take away some of Tampa General's paying patients.



LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              76 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Yadkin Ripple, Yadkinville, N.C.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              April 4, 2016 Monday

Hospital legal case settled

BYLINE: Kitsey Burns Harrison, The Yadkin Ripple, Yadkinville, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 759 words


April 04--Ten months after the unexpected closure of the Yadkin Valley Community
Hospital, the ongoing legal battle between Yadkin County and former hospital
operations group CAH, also referred to as HMC, has finally come to a conclusion
with a settlement agreement.

Yadkin County Attorney Ed Powell met with the commissioners in a closed session
emergency meeting last Thursday to present the agreement. The full report was
presented on Monday at the regular meeting of the board of commissioners.

As part of the agreement, CAH has paid $250,000 to the county. County Manager
Lisa Hughes said $26,000 of that money will go to pay the property taxes on the
building. The remaining funds will go towards the legal fees the county has
incurred during the case.

CAH also has paid $14,983.17 to the town of Yadkinville for personal property
tax payment.

In the previous bankruptcy case of CAH, the amount of $451,493.32 remains
payable to the county.

In February of 2015, the county began the process to find a new company to
operate health care services in the county-owned hospital building. After
negotiations came to a standstill, operator CAH closed the hospital on May 22 of
2015 despite a temporary restraining order obtained by the county in an attempt
to keep the hospital open through the end of CAH's lease term.

Judge Terrence Boyle found CAH in contempt of court for defying that restraining
order. In January, Boyle ordered the group to pay damages in the amount of
$36,079.96 in costs and $112,011.70 in attorney fees to the county. In the
meantime, CAH filed counter claims against the county as well as County Chairman
Kevin Austin and Hugh Chatham Memorial Hospital, claiming they were in cahoots
to remove CAH as hospital operations group in order to replace it with Hugh
Chatham Memorial Hospital based in Elkin.

Those counter claims by CAH also have been considered settled as part of the
agreement.

A major concern for the county throughout the case has been the
Medicare/Medicaid liabilities associated with the hospital during CAH's tenure
as operator. In Powell's report to the board, he explained that Dennis Davis,
chief legal officer for CAH, wanted Yadkin County to pay the $1,700,000
liability to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Powell said
there were also additional liability amounts for CMS. As part of the settlement
agreement, CAH has agreed that it is liable for all of the CMS obligations.

"Therefore Yadkin County will have no liability for any of these amounts going
forward with a re-opening of the hospital," Powell said.

In conclusion, Powell said the settlement agreement will "save Yadkin County
hundreds of thousands of dollars in attorneys fees, costs and expenses that
would have been paid going forward had the lawsuits continued to conclusion.

"Our outside counsel and my office have researched and evaluated the possibility
that even if we obtained a significant judgment in these legal actions, what
would be the possibility of collecting the damages awarded," Powell said. "It is
our opinion that the primary obligor of these potential damages would be the
corporate entity, CAH Acquisition Company 10, LLC, whose only asset was the
operations of Yadkin Valley Community Hospital. It is likely that if we obtained
a large judgment against all these corporate defendants, they would have
probably declared bankruptcy leaving us with small percentage claims against
bankrupt entities. The value of these claims would be far outweighed by the
tremendous legal costs involved."

Commissioner Frank Zachary said it was a good thing to have the case settled at
last.

"I'd like to say that the last point that the county attorney made, to wage this
battle, create all this carnage, even if we prevailed, we'd be unsatisfied," he
said. "The better part of valor would be to end this thing and move forward."

Commissioner Marion Welborn said he felt the Medicaid liability was one of the
most important factors in the settlement.

Austin agreed, saying the total liability to CMS could be upwards of $5 million.

"The release of all this liability from CMS I think puts us in a much stronger
position to bargain for that provider to come into the space now. I think that's
a big plus," said Commissioner David Moxley.

"The air's cleared now for going forward," Powell said.

Kitsey Burns Harrison may be reached at 336-679-2341 or on Twitter
@RippleReporterK.

___ (c)2016 The Yadkin Ripple (Yadkinville, N.C.) Visit The Yadkin Ripple
(Yadkinville, N.C.) at www.yadkinripple.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160404-1YK-Hospital-legal-case-settled-0404-20160404

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1YK


                                 Copyright 2016


                              77 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                              July 28, 2017 Friday

Swabi hospital has medico-legal ward for privileged patients

SECTION: Vol. 27 No. 139

LENGTH: 366  words


What is so special about the Bacha Khan Medical Complex in Swabi that despite
being a teaching hospital it has a special medico-legal cases ward with 14 beds?

It is apparently the only teaching hospital in Pakistan to have a dedicated ward
for patients facing medico-legal cases.

Other teaching hospitals admit patients involved in medico-legal cases in
different wards depending on the nature of their illness or injury. In case of
the teaching hospital in Swabi, all patients facing medico-legal cases
irrespective of the nature of their disease are admitted in this particular and
designated ward.

The separate, well-furnished ward is supposed to admit patients of medico-legal
cases only. Often the ward doesn't have that many patients to occupy the 14
beds. Recently, there were two patients only in this ward.

The Bacha Khan Medical Complex, the teaching hospital of the Gajju Khan Medical
College in Swabi, is unique in the sense that it is the only one in the country
to have a separate ward for medico-legal cases.

Doctors and sources in the Health department said the remaining 26 beds in this
ward are shared by five specialties, including orthopedics, neurosurgery,
paediatric surgery, eye and ear, nose and throat, and are mostly short of beds
for the significant number of patients. The needy poor patients have to suffer
as the remaining beds are insufficient for those who have to be admitted for
various ailments.

The sources said the 14 beds in the medico-legal cases section of the ward
remain unoccupied. Instead of patients, these beds and space is occupied by the
attendants of the patients and the policemen on duty with those facing medico-
legal cases.

According to the sources, politically affiliated patients of medico-legal cases
are admitted in this ward and given special protocol.

They said such patients mostly having no genuine medical problems are admitted
for months in this ward as a special favour by certain politicians. One patient
spent about four months in the ward. Some of the patients belong to the
constituency of Shahram Khan Tarakai, who hails from Swabi district and is the
provincial health minister. Others are his supporters or of politicians aligned
to him.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 10, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Hospital Is Accused Of Selective Life-Saving

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 9


Two legal advocacy groups accused an Oklahoma children's hospital Wednesday of
withholding life-saving treatment from severely handicapped infants whose
families were deemed unable to care for them properly.

Lawyers for the National Legal Center for the Medically Dependent and Disabled
and the American Civil Liberties Union made the charges at a news conference
here against the Oklahoma Children's Memorial Hospital in Oklahoma City.

James Bopp, the center's president, charged that low-income parents of infants
with severe birth defects were told their children could not survive corrective
surgery or that they would be severely mentally and physically handicapped. The
organizations said they would file suit against the hospital unless it agreed to
stop using quality-of-life standards for withholding medical care.

Robert Fulton, director of the Oklahoma Department of Human Resources, said in
response to the charges, ''Children in this hospital are getting proper care.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 8, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Cooperation Needed, Not Lawsuits

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 24, Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 641 words


I am writing in response to the article ''Ruling on Hospitals Facing
Challenge.'' The article concerned the decision by the Connecticut Hospital
Association (C.H.A.) to sue the Connecticut Department of Mental Health
(D.M.H.).

C.H.A. is arguing that the Department of Mental Health is obligated to accept
all mentally ill patients referred from general hospital emergency rooms. The
department has responded that it is not obligated to accept all patients,
regardless of whether it can provide adequate and safe care for them. Both
parties agree that there is a significant problem. They disagree on its causes,
extent and solutions.

The article did not include quotations from Department of Mental Health
officials, nor did it highlight a key element in the department's present legal
position. According to the state's interpretation of the statutes, public and
private hospitals share the same responsibilities. Therefore, if the department
should be required to accept all patients, so should general and private
psychiatric hospitals. Dennis May, president of the C.H.A., was quoted as
saying, ''Our position was that they (D.M.H.) have a moral obligation to accept
these patients.'' What is the moral responsibility of the Connecticut Hospital
Association? In undertaking legal action against the Department of Mental
Health, does C.H.A. really think that legal resolution will be obtained quickly
to correct the present problems in emergency rooms? Even if a court rules within
the one to three years that a court case may require, will this bring swift
legislative compliance? And will such action provide hospital beds at the cost
of essential community services?

C.H.A. representatives participated on the Governor's Special Task Force on
Mental Health Policy during 1982-83. The task force report identified the
critical problem of community housing for up to 500 state hospital patients, as
well as the need to provide appropriate services in other settings to
significant numbers of nonpsychotic, mentally retarded patients. From 1981-83
the department co-funded a mental health staff position at C.H.A. to work to
increase community psychiatric beds, promote needed new services such as
community residences and intermediate care, and to develop a cooperative working
relationship between C.H.A. and D.M.H.

The Department of Mental Health is well aware of the problems in hospital
emergency rooms, and, in its proposed new programs for fiscal 1985, has included
specific service options which, if implemented, will significantly decrease, if
not eliminate the backups in the emergency rooms

and

 will provide appropriate care to those clients who are in need of service.
Warehousing people in state hospitals should not be considered a treatment of
choice.

Finally, I hope that taxpayers and citizens will ponder the costs of legal
action, both financial and other. Time and money are required on both sides to
develop and argue complex legal issues. For the state, the funds come out of a
budget raised from the public. C.H.A. funds are raised from the 36 member
organizations, community general hospitals, and state facilities. General
hospital expenses are also passed on to the general public through fees for
care, which include indirect costs such as legal expenses. The adversarial
climate created by legal action can hardly benefit anyone.

How much better it would be if the C.H.A. used its considerable clout to argue
the merits of needed services with the legislature, so that ultimately all
parties would benefit - especially the clients in need of care - rather than
attempting to shift the blame onto the ever-available public- sector whipping
post.

BARBARA P. BRESLER Member State Board of Mental Health, Southwest Regional
Mental Health Board Fairfield

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           November 21, 2015 Saturday

Karachi goes without police surgeon

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 1037

LENGTH: 313  words


The post of Police Surgeon Karachi has been laying vacant for last three weeks
and the provincial health department Sindh has failed to fill the post as yet.

An official of health department Sindh said the Police Surgeon Karachi's post
has been lying vacant from three weeks and high-ups of department are yet to
appoint any official on this important post. He said police surgeon Karachi is
considered one of major posts in medic-legal department but due to lathery of
bosses the post is laying vacant.

All administrative work in medico-legal departments of three major and six other
hospitals hasbadly affected due non-appointment of police surgeon Karachi. The
salaries, important files and other official work is badly disturbed as no boss
is available to take important decisions.

He explained that Police Surgeon Karachi Dr Jalil Qadir was transferred to
Chemical Examination Department Sindh on 30the October by provincial health
government and since then the post has been laying vacant.

Sources, however, said three major hospitals of city having the facility of
Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) are ASH,JPMC and CHK, while medico-legal
departments in six other hospitals including Lyari General Hospital, Sindh
Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh
Government Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Qatar Orangi Town and
Sindh Government Hospital Karachi Korangi are partially non-functional due to
shortage of MLOs.

They said at least 20 posts of medico-legal officers, both male and female, are
laying vacant in the city which has increased the burden of work on existing
MLOs in major public sector hospitals.

The MLO's report containing the cause of death, time of death, nature of death,
and other details on an official form at the time of autopsy provides the basis
for a court's case, carrying an impact on the final decision.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Albany Herald, Ga.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

Phoebe Board, Hospital Authority discuss legal matters

BYLINE: Jennifer Maddox Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


June 11--ALBANY, Ga. -- The Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital Board, as well as
the Hospital Authority of Albany-Dougherty County, both had special called
meetings on Tuesday, primarily held behind closed doors.

The hospital board meeting started just after noon and soon went into closed
session before re-opening and adjourning at 1:30 p.m. The Hospital Authority met
at 4:30 p.m., with that meeting flowing much the same way as the other one, with
the closed session beginning almost immediately and going on until just before
adjournment at around 5:30 p.m.

Both meetings, conducted in the Willson Board Room of Phoebe Putney Memorial
Hospital, had single items on their agendas. All officials would say regarding
the business of the meetings was that they were held so both boards could seek
legal consultation.

The motion from the Hospital Authority's agenda read "... (D)iscuss with
Authority legal counsel pending and potential claims and litigation as well as
other legally confidential matters."

No action was taken at either meeting.

The meetings took place as recent court orders have blocked the further
integration of the Phoebe North Campus with its sister hospital pending the
results of an administrative trial set to commence on Aug. 5 in Washington, D.C.

The most recent development from the ongoing storyline was the filing of a court
order in which the Hospital Authority and Phoebe Putney Health System agreed to
halt the integration of the former Palmyra Medical Center with Phoebe Putney
Memorial Hospital while an administrative law judge considered a Federal Trade
Commission complaint challenging the merger.

In the federal court order, entered by U.S. District Judge W. Louis Sands last
week, Phoebe officials also agreed to maintain the viability of Phoebe North
until the completion of a full administrative trial on the merits and all
related appeals, extending a similar temporary restraining order issued by the
District Court on May 15.

___ (c)2013 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130611-1AH-Phoebe-Board-Hospital-Authority-discuss-legal
-matters-0611-20130611

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                                 Copyright 2013


                              82 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

NEW ROYAL FEARS AS DEFEATED PROTESTER APPEALS ... USING LEGAL AID;
City leaders slam challenge to new hospital: EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: LIZA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 976 words


ROYAL Liverpool hospital bosses today said its planned pounds 451m rebuild had
been put into jeopardy by a damaging new legal challenge.

Health chiefs were initially relieved after it was announced a High Court bid
questioning the rebuild had been emphatically thrown out.

But the leader of the bid, Keep Our NHS Public campaigner Sam Semoff, who is
funded through taxpayers' legal aid, has swiftly filed for an appeal.

Today council leader Joe Anderson told Mr Semoff to "bog off ". And hospital
leaders said they were "bitterly disappointed" by the "major setback".

Royal chief executive Tony Bell is concerned the delay could jeopardise the
project, as companies bidding to build the hospital become nervous due to the
continuing uncertainty.

City figures slammed Mr Semoff for his actions and said the new hospital was
essential for the health of Liverpool people.

But the campaigner claimed the use of Private Finance Initiative (PFI) cash to
pay for the hospital would leave the region with huge debts that would impact on
future health services.

Leader of Liverpool City Council, Joe Anderson, said: "My message is 'Bog off
Semoff '. We have had enough delays and interference in so many projects within
this city.

"Quite frankly it annoys not just me but literally thousands of people.

"This is about the health of the people of this city, and is not for some
individual with his own political and ideological reasons to jeopardise the
services meant for the people of this city.

"Mr Semoff 's interference is not welcome, he should at least have the decency
to accept an objective decision."

And MP for Liverpool Riverside, Louise Ellman said: "This is about high quality
health services and employment opportunities on construction and science. It''s
a vital part of Liverpool''s regeneration and must go ahead without delay."

Both parties were told earlier this week that Mr Justice Burnett had thrown out
Mr Semoff 's application for a judicial review about the use of PFI funding for
the new hospital. The legal challenge was directed at the Department of Health,
after the Government approved the Royal's outline business case.

The judge, who made the decision in private, said in his ruling: "The claimant
has no prospect of demonstrating any illegality on the part of the Secretary of
State."

He also ordered Mr Semoff to pay costs to the Royal, Liverpool Primary Care
Trust and the Department of Health.

But Mr Semoff and his solicitors have now filed for an oral hearing - the next
stage of appeal - which will revisit whether a judicial review should go ahead.

Royal bosses fear it could take months to set a date for the hearing, but Mr
Semoff hopes it should be listed before the end of the year.

The campaigner said: "We are as confident as ever that our claim is very strong,
and will succeed.

"I want to emphasise this is about the future of health care for people in
Liverpool for the next 30 years.

"This is why we are so adamant the claim should go through."

Before the latest twist bosses hoped the hospital would be finished by early
2016. Mr Bell said: "We were pleased and reassured that Mr Justice Burnett
refused Mr Semoff permission to proceed with a judicial review.

"We are now bitterly disappointed to learn that Sam Semoff is challenging such a
resounding verdict.

"This is a major setback - the potential impact of which should not be
underestimated. This legal challenge has already delayed the project by over
four months.

"This will delay it further and is likely to deter interested bidders and
deprive the city region of one of its most important regeneration opportunities
for the future. We are angry and upset that this challenge has been lodged given
the resounding verdict from Mr Justice Burnett. We have had phenomenal support
from local people, businesses and other organisations across the city.

"Both the Department of Health and the Treasury assessed the OBC thoroughly,
before approval was given. The project was then reassessed under the
Government's review of spending decisions and given the go-ahead on June 17. We
are taking legal advice in relation to Mr Semoff 's latest announcement and
would urge him to seriously consider the impact of his actions on the people of
Liverpool, Merseyside and Cheshire."

It is the second time Mr Semoff has called for court action. In March last year
he pushed for a judicial review because he said the hospital had not consulted
the public properly on the use of PFI. He won the right to a hearing, but a deal
was later agreed.

TIMELINE . . . .TIMELINE ... TIMELINE .... TIMELINE ....

THE plans to build a new pounds 451m Royal hospital in Liverpool have had a
rollercoaster history:. July 2007- hospital chiefs reveal blueprint for new
Royal Liverpool hospital.

. March 2009 - Sam Semoff launches first legal challenge and a hearing is set.

. April 2009 - A deal is struck and Liverpool PCT and the hospital agree to
carry out more consultation on the proposals.. March 2010 - Merseyside-born
Labour health secretary Andy Burnham gives the go ahead for a new hospital.

. May 2010 - The new Con/Lib Coalition Government announces it is reviewing all
projects given the go ahead since January.

. July 2010 - Conservative Health secretary Andrew Lansley says the project is
safe, and approves the plans once again.

. July 2010 - Royal announces Balfour Beatty, The Hospital Company and Horizon
are the three shortlisted bidders to build the new hospital.

. August 2010 - Sam Semoff launches second legal challenge to the new build
hospital.

. August 2010 - Hospital bosses reveal plan for a biocampus next to the new
hospital, to work with business and universities.. November 2010 - High Court
judge throws out Semoff's demand for a judicial review but campaigner instantly
files for an "oral hearing", leading to delay fears.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SUPPORT: Andy Burnham APPROVED: How the new pounds 451m Royal
Liverpool Hospital should look on completion in early 2016 FURY: Royal hospital
chief executive Tony Bell and council leader Joe Anderson have expressed anger
at the latest legal challenge to the new Royal from campaigner Sam Semoff, below
outside the hospital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

A block on freedom

BYLINE: Thousands of elderly people are stuck in hospital because of legal
hitches, reports Stephen Naysmith

SECTION: HS - FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1121 words


Thousands of elderly patients in hospital or residents in care homes risk being
deprived of their liberty due to administrative delays, according to experts.

A number of so-called  bed blockers  are patients who lack the capacity to make
decisions about their own care. Those involved admit there is an urgent need for
legal clarification as their rights may be being breached if they are
effectively held against their will.

The issue of delayed discharge  the term for what happens when patients no
longer need hospital care, but cannot return home   has long been one of concern
to the NHS.

Popularly known as bed blocking, it often happens because of problems in
arranging suitable support in the community, or adaptations in a person s home
to enable them to live independently.

The problem means beds in Scottish hospitals are occupied for around 200,000
days a year by patients who do not need to be there.

This can cause knock-on problems for other departments, including accident and
emergency units, because they are unable to admit patients to beds which have
not been vacated.

It also puts the health of vulnerable older patients at risk because of the risk
of hospital-acquired infections   and the danger that they lose the skills that
would allow them to live independently.

However some of the patients involved are those affected by dementia or other
conditions which mean they are unable to express their wishes. In these cases,
there is increasing concern that many are being effectively deprived of liberty
while legal issues such as guardianship and power of attorney are determined.

According to old age psychiatry consultant Dr Stuart Ritchie, of Leverndale
Hospital, only a small proportion of delayed discharge cases are caused by this
problem. But they are an ever-increasing problem for the NHS and social workers
because of the length of delays involved.

Speaking at a conference in Glasgow on the topic, Dr Ritchie said that 150
people had been delayed in the city s hospitals last year under so-called  code
9  delays. This covers situations governed by the adults with incapacity act.

Usually, they are waiting for someone to be granted power of attorney or legal
guardianship, to enable a decision to be taken about where they are best to live
or be cared for when they leave hospital.

Those numbers are small, but the bureaucracy involved means they have a major
impact in terms of bed days, Dr Ritchie said.  The average delay last year was
167 days   that s more than five and a half months.

But that figure is an average. In the worst cases patients have been blocked in
hospital for more than a year, Dr Ritchie pointed out:  Of those discharged
under code 9 last year, the 20 longest delays spanned from 289 days to 554 days.

He added:  When an adult, often because of a disease such as dementia, becomes
unable to understand what is happening and lacks the capacity to make choices,
there is a legal process to protect the adult and make sure any decision made is
in the best interests of the adult.

However this can mean that when an adult in hospital is ready for discharge,
there is a waiting period   which can stretch to many months   whilst legal
processes are completed.

The delays alone are not the only problem. The issue is also causing major human
rights concerns, which is why Glasgow City Council, NHS Greater Glasgow and
Clyde and TC Young Solicitors held Why Am I Here? a joint summit conference on
the topic.

If a patient is in hospital for no good medical reason, perhaps against their
will, there are real legal issues raised about whether anyone can or should keep
them there, even for their own safety.

This is a deprivation of liberty for the adult. They have no-one appointed to
speak on their behalf and there is no legal framework in place to help them,  Dr
Ritchie explains.

There is no medical need for them to be in hospital and it is really not the
best place for them.

It is not to anyone s benefit to have patients awaiting guardianship delay their
discharge from hospital and it is often to their disadvantage as they are
exposed to infection and can become de-skilled.

The same can apply to people living in care homes and other residential care
settings where decisions are delayed while the legal situation is established.

Overall, there are thousands of patients and residents being potentially
deprived of their liberty in this way,  Dr Ritchie said.

Although there is no legal framework in place, attention has been drawn to the
issue by cases south of the Border, particularly a case in which an autistic man
who could not speak was detained against his will in a Surrey hospital because
it was deemed in his best interests. Ultimately the European Court of Human
Rights ruled in 2004 that his  rights had been breached, and that  necessity
was not a good enough reason for medical staff to refuse to let him go home.
The case led to the Deprivation of Liberty Safeguards (DoLS).

Dr Ritchie added:  In England the DoLS aims to protect people in care and in
hospitals from being inappropriately deprived of their liberty. Scotland has no
such procedure and patients can find themselves in hospital for long periods
with no right of appeal while a guardianship order is being sought.

At the conference Dr Donald Lyons, chief executive of the Mental Welfare
Commission, highlighted cases from the commission s files, including that of
Bob, a patient with brain damage caused by alcohol abuse, who was admitted to
hospital when a fire left him with burns and having suffered smoke inhalation.

Although he improved after several weeks, when he wanted to go home, staff
persuaded him to stay while he was being assessed.

Initially this was valid, but then, because a decision was made that he could
not go home, staff continued to tell him the white lie that he was still being
assessed.

Our view would be that this is de facto detention,  Dr Lyons said.  While it
remains true that he is being assessed, telling him he needs to stay is
acceptable, but it is not acceptable to continue to rely on that to keep him in
hospital.

Addressing such problems will not be easy. If every incapable patient in a
hospital or nursing home is made subject to an official procedure, this could
place a huge burden on social work and medical staff.

The Scottish Law Commission is currently reviewing the relevant legislation in
Scotland.

Concerted action has cut the problem in Glasgow, but it is not going to go away.
Quite the reverse, as Glasgow s assistant director of social care services
Susanne Millar pointed out:  The number of people with dementia is expected to
rise significantly in the years ahead,  she said.  So it is essential we begin
to address this issue now.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO WAY HOME: For many elderly patients, there is no medical need for
them to be in hospital, but legal hitches mean they are not being allowed to go
home.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              July 15, 2013 Monday

Of Hingoranis, Hinduja hosp and 'half truths'

BYLINE: Maitri Porecha

LENGTH: 350  words


It has been three weeks since the Ulhasnagar-based couple Mahendar and Rashmi
Hingorani slapped a legal notice on Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, for gross medical
negligence after Rashmi, 41, went in for a kidney stone removal surgery and
ended up getting discharged with an amputated leg.

In spite of multiple requests that the hospital provide them with detailed
medical records from May 20 to July 2, 2011 of Rashmi's condition, Mahendar
alleged that a part of those records were not returned to them.

Following a legal notice stating that the hospital would be sued for Rs5 crore
by the Hingoranis, Mahendar shot another request letter to the hospital on July
9 asking for Rashmi's electronic medical records. The request went unheeded by
the hospital authorities.

After sending in the first legal notice, the hospital provided the Hingoranis
with 523 pages of records on June 28. But electronic data related to CT scans,
ultra sonography and digital X-rays had not been given. The letter which was
forwarded to Hinduja Hospital (a copy of which is with dna) states, "I have not
been furnished with any of the electronic record and data pertaining to the
various investigations performed upon me, including ultrasonography, Colour
Doppler Studies, CT Scan, Digital X-rays etc., as also the electronic data and
record of the various monitors and other gadgets which were used during the
course of treatment."

Mahendar said that the hospital has not yet replied to the letter.

Despite repeated attempts to contact Dr Sanjay Agarwaala, the newly-appointed
medical director of Hinduja Hospital, he remained unavailable for comment.
Former medical director of the hospital, Dr G Daver, was one of the six doctors
from the hospital who was served a legal notice by Hingorani. The other doctors
mentioned in the legal notice and involved with Rashmi's multiple surgical
procedures include Dr Sharad Sagade, consultant urologist, Dr Khusrav Bajan,
consultant physician, Dr Simran Singh, consultant physician, Dr Navnit Kumar,
consultant cardiologist and Dr C Balakrishnan, consultant rheumatologist.

p_maitri@dnaindia.net

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday

Legal aid cell at Pune mental hospital helps women inmates reunite with kin

BYLINE: anuradha mascarenhas

LENGTH: 508  words

DATELINE: Pune


After her husband's death, the house at Buldhana district in Maharashtra
rightfully belonged to Surekha Patil (name changed). Surekha, however, suffered
from schizophrenia and her son-in-law soon got her admitted to Pune's Regional
Mental Hospital at Yerawada. The family did not bother to contact Surekha and
misled the hospital by giving a fake address in Pune. With time, Surekha's
condition improved and she insisted she had her own home at Buldhana.

For seven years, Rumi Pandya (name changed) was admitted at the same hospital.
Suffering from schizophrenia, the 45-year-old who hailed from Bangalore had
wandered away from home. Police at Hadapsar admitted her to the mental hospital.
After she recovered, she told authorities they had a family hotel business in
Mumbai and a home at Bangalore.

What what else is in the news

At the Yerawada hospital, there are more than 300 long-stay patients like
Surekha, Rumi and others who have been forsaken by their relatives for similar
reasons. Of them, many have recovered and they insist they have homes or
relatives they would like to go back to.

Following a directive from the Supreme Court to the human rights commission to
take immediate steps towards rehabilitation of such long-stay patients, the
first such effort in Maharashtra has been launched at Pune's regional mental
hospital, which set up a legal aid cell in January this year. Dr B M Donglikar,
superintendent at the hospital, said at least 26 cases were being handled by a
panel of advocates from the District Legal Aid Services Authority (DLASA). At
least 10 patients have been collected by their relatives after the legal cell
was set up, Donglikar said.

Around 1 in 100 people develop schizophrenia, a serious mental disorder, during
their life time. Although schizophrenia sets in later among women as compared to
men and is generally reported to have a more favourable outcome, social
consequences such as stigma, abandonment by husband, separation, homelessness,
vulnerability to sexual abuse and exposure to HIV contribute to the difficulties
in the rehabilitation of women treated for schizophrenia.

According to advocate Dr J Pathan, member of the DLASA, a panel scrutinizes such
cases referred by social workers and weekly visits are made to the hospital to
find out legal solutions.

According to Donglikar, in some cases, there has been no need to send a legal
notice. "We traced the families with the addresses provided by the patients who
have recovered and told them to start sending us legal 7/12 land extracts and
other details. Initially, there was resistance and refusal to admit the
patient's claims to property. Our social workers contacted the village gram
panchayat and the local police to collect information about such patients. Once
shown the evidence, the relatives too arrived at a compromise. They are aware
that a legal aid cell has been set up. However, if relatives still refuse to
take a patient back home, cases will have to be filed in the court to secure the
patient's claim to the property," Donglikar said.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday

Idaho Supreme Court says legal malpractice claim could be assigned

BYLINE: Pat Murphy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348  words


State law permits the assignment of a legal malpractice claim in connection with
the transfer of a former client's assets and liabilities, the Idaho Supreme
Court has ruled in answering a certified question from a U.S. District Court.

The lawyer in the case defended a hospital in a wrongful discharge case. During
the course of the employment action, the hospital became dissatisfied with the
lawyer's performance and retained other counsel. The hospital was subsequently
sold to the plaintiff. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the assets and
liabilities of the hospital were transferred to the plaintiff.

After settling the employment case for $4.25 million, the plaintiff filed a
legal malpractice suit against the lawyer as the hospital's assignee.

The lawyer argued that the plaintiff could not step into the shoes of the
hospital because applicable Idaho law prohibits the assignment of legal
malpractice claims.

But the state supreme court concluded that the general rule against assignment
does not apply to a commercial transaction under which a business' assets and
liabilities are transferred.

"[F]ar from being an arms-length bidder, [the plaintiff] was intimately
connected to the litigation leading to the claim, and did little to restructure
the hospital after acquiring it, beyond changing its name. It thus makes sense
to treat [the plaintiff] as [the hospital's] successor, and not a stranger, when
assessing the propriety of the assignment. Logically, given that [the plaintiff]
assumed the obligations under the [employment] litigation, it certainly should
have the rights attendant to that assumption -- which would include the right to
recoup any malpractice losses that impacted the value of the consideration it
received under the [asset purchase agreement]," the court said.

Idaho Supreme Court. St. Luke's Magic Valley Regional Medical Center v. Luciani,
No. 39315. Jan. 23, 2013. Lawyers USA No. 993-3776.

<a href="http://www.lawyersusaonline.com/be-the-first-to-know/">Click here for
more from this resource. </a>

© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                          September 15, 1988 Thursday

Anorexics ordered to stay in hospital

SOURCE: aap

LENGTH: 382 words


SYDNEY - A magistrate has ordered two seriously ill teenage girls suffering
anorexia nervosa to remain under hospital care for treatment including
force-feeding.

The girls, aged 17 and 19, are in a serious condition in Sydney's Macquarie
Hospital, having wasted to only 22.5 kilograms and 37 kilograms respectively.
They were admitted to the hospital against their wills, under the NSW Mental
Health Act, the first about a fortnight ago.

According to legal sources, the girls sought a court ruling at a special bedside
hearing this week to be released from hospital.

Their application is believed to have been contested by their parents, who
claimed their daughters might die if released.

The girls, whose names have been withheld under the Mental Health Act, appeared
before a magistrate who ruled they continue to be treated.

The hospital refused yesterday to give out details on the nature of the
treatment, but it is understood to include force-feeding at least one of the
girls intraveneously.

There was no confirmation that the girls intended to take further legal action.

The NSW Minister of Health, Mr Collins, said no court proceedings had begun and
he did not believe such action was being contemplated.

"I believe all assistance possible is being given to the girls to make sure they
get the medical treatment they need," he said.

"They are in serious condition and the hospital is taking every step possible to
make sure it doesn't get any worse."

Mr Collins said one girl had been placed under hospital care for a one-month
period and the other for three months.

Legal sources said the case centred on whether the deadly slimmers disease was a
mental condition and whether it had affected the girls' judgment.

Mr Collins confirmed that anorexia nervosa was not a mental condition but there
was enough evidence of mental illness to warrant the girls remaining in
hospital.

"I don't have any detail on the nature of that treatment, but I understand there
is no legal application at this stage to terminate whatever treatment they are
receiving," he said.

The NSW Legal Aid Commission director, Mr Bill Robinson, said it was a legal
requirement that hearings be conducted when people were admitted to mental
institutions against their will.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              88 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                October 2, 2003

Defrost-row hospital faces legal claims

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 411 words


A YORKSHIRE hospital at the centre of a health scare after a faulty machine
partially defrosted sperm from cancer patients could be facing legal action if
it is found some patients have been left infertile.


=


A total of 80 patients were contacted last year after samples they had banked at
Sheffield's Royal Hallamshire Hospital were affected by the failure of a storage
container.

The sperm was donated by the men in case cancer treatments they were receiving
left them infertile.

Most of the patients are now fertile but some are still awaiting test results.

One such patient, who now lives in Cumbria, is urging the hospital to make sure
a similar situation does not arise again. It follows similar incidents at
Bristol's Southmead Hospital and Edinburgh's Western General Hospital.

He is still awaiting his test results and is considering suing the hospital if
he is proved infertile.

He has instructed leading South West law firm Foot Anstey Sargent, which is
already dealing with a number of similar cases in Bristol and Edinburgh, to act
on his behalf.

Solicitor Jonathan Green, who was involved in the claim against the Royal
Liverpool Children's Hospital, Liverpool, as a result of the Alder Hey organ
retention scandal, said: "We will be working very hard to ensure that all
families affected receive a free initial assessment of their claim.

"Legal Aid is available to families who are financially eligible while we are
looking to represent families who are not eligible on a "no win, no fee" basis".



In the Sheffield incident, last September, a seal failed on a container in the
andrology laboratory, allowing some of the liquid nitrogen to escape.

The incident came a few months after a similar one at Edinburgh's Western
General Hospital, in March 2002, while in June this year sperm samples of 28 men
receiving cancer treatment at Bristol's Southmead Hospital were destroyed.

The families of the Bristol patients started legal action against the hospital
trust in August.

Foot Anstey Sargent is now arranging meetings in and around the Sheffield region
for affected families to discuss the way forward.

A spokesman from Sheffield's Royal Hallamshire Hospital last night said: "We've
received no formal complaints from patients following the incident and we're not
currently aware of any action being taken".


Foot Anstey Sargent's has a helpline for those affected. The number is 0800 0731
411.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc


                              89 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

Fraud allegations - Leading law firm shuts down - Company had health care
clients

BYLINE: Catherine Morrison

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 470 words


The scope of the client list of Brangam Bagnall is such that its collapse has
caused serious difficulties for a host of major organisations, in particular
health care.

More than a dozen health service organisations are now faced with making
alternative legal arrangements following the closure.

Among the firm's clients listed on its website were 10 health trusts and boards
across the north and it is understood that another three have used the company
in the past. They are:

- Northern Health and Social Services Board

- Southern Health and Social Services Board

- Eastern Health and Social Services Board

- Royal Group of Hospitals

- Ulster Community and Hospital Trust

- Down Lisburn Trust

- South and East Belfast HSS Trust

- North and West Belfast HSS Trust

- Green Park Healthcare Trust

- Mater Hospital Trust

- Causeway Trust

- Homefirst Community Trust

- United Hospitals Trust

Yesterday most organisations said they were aware of developments and were said
to be working with the Law Society or the Department of Health on appointing
replacement legal advisors.

Most of the trusts have been using Brangan Bagnall since the mid-1990s when the
Central Services Agency's monopoly of the legal health services was removed.

However many of the boards and trusts said that the firm was only one of several
being used for legal advice and representation.

A spokeswoman for the Royal Group of Hospitals said that work was "on-going" on
a number of cases.

She said Brangam Bagnall and Co had represented the group since 1996.

The Ulster Community and Hospitals Trust said they were working with the Law
Society through "this difficult period".

A spokeswoman for the Southern Health and Social Services Board said the last
time the board used Brangam and Bagnall was around ten years ago. She said the
board already had alternative legal arrangements in place.

Down Lisburn Trust said the company is one of a number of solicitors they have
contact with.

South and East Belfast HSS Trust said they were working with the Law Society to
ensure that they have on-going legal support.

The Northern Board is liaising with the Department of Health, Social Services
and Public Safety to ensure that appropriate legal services continue to be
provided.

Causeway Trust said its legal services are now being provided by the Directorate
of Legal Services.

The Mater Hospital yesterday said Brangam Bagnall and Co "under the supervision
of the Law Society" continue to represent their interests.

Green Park Healthcare Trust said it was working with the Department of Health to
ensure appropriate legal arrangements were made.

Homefirst Community Trust said they were advised "this week" by the Law Society
of the closure of the firm.

"The trust is currently considering alternative arrangements for those legal
services formerly provided by Brangam Bagnall and Co."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 993 DOCUMENTS


              St. Charles County Business Record (St. Charles, MO)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

Lawsuit against SPvG firm centers on conflict-of-interest allegation

BYLINE: Donna Walter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1263  words


The St. Louis law firm of Sandberg, Phoenix & von Gontard says it will fight
allegations of fraud and legal malpractice filed by a doctor the law firm
represented 10 years ago.

The lawsuit alleges the firm had a conflict of interest it failed to disclose to
the doctor. Central to the conflict issue are the questions of whether the
situation involves a current or a former client and whether the legal matters
are substantially related.

"The allegations in this amended petition are completely scandalous, without
basis in fact and outrageous," said attorney Gerard T. Noce, a partner with
Burroughs, Hepler, Broom, MacDonald, Hebrank & True LLP, who is representing
Sandberg, Phoenix & von Gontard.

Last summer, Dr. Keshav Joshi filed a legal malpractice claim against the SPvG
law firm and Jonathan Ries, the attorney who defended the anesthesiologist in
suspension proceedings brought by St. Luke's Hospital in 1996. Joshi's attorney,
Naren Chaganti, who practices in both Missouri and California, lodged an amended
petition with the St. Louis Circuit Court on Aug. 30.

But the amended petition is not part of the case, said Noce, because the court
hasn't granted the plaintiff leave to amend his petition. SPvG intends to fight
the plaintiff on that as well, said Noce.

The defense attorney asserted the amended petition was drafted in response to
SPvG's motion for summary judgment now pending before the court. In the motion,
filed in July, Noce argued Joshi's lawsuit is barred by the five-year statute of
limitations for legal malpractice claims.

Rejecting the notion that the law firm would settle this case, Noce said, "We'll
try the case because (1) it should be barred by statute of limitations and (2)
the facts of the case will support that our representation was not only
reasonable, it was outstanding. "

Chaganti asserts in the amended petition that SPvG "compromised Plaintiff's
interests in favor of St. Luke's Hospital's interests in order to ingratiate
themselves to St. Luke's Hospital with the view to obtain future work from St.
Luke's Hospital. "

The law firm failed to disclose to Joshi that it represented two other hospitals
that were part of the Unity Health System, as was St. Luke's Hospital, and that
it was marketing its services to St. Luke's Hospital, according to the amended
petition.

In the current claim against SPvG, Chaganti alleged internal memos support the
allegation that the law firm hid from Joshi a potential conflict of interest. In
addition, the plaintiff's lawyer alleged these memos were produced by SPvG
during discovery for the legal malpractice suit and that Joshi could not have
known of the law firm's alleged conflict of interest before production of the
memos.

A Jan. 22, 1996, memo sent from Ries to the law firm's client committee states
he conferred with "KWB, PvG and KLP" - which match the initials for Kenneth W.
Bean, Peter von Gontard and Kathleen L. Pine - and they determined there was no
conflict of interest caused by the fact that SPvG had made, and likely would
continue to make, "client development initiatives" with St. John's Mercy
Hospital, part of the Unity group. In addition, a computer check turned up "very
dated matters" in which the firm represented either St. Luke's Hospital or St.
Anthony's Hospital, another Unity member. Those matters "did not really come
close to rising to the level of a conflict situation," Ries wrote in the memo.

Two days later, Bean sent Ries a memo discussing turmoil among the
anesthesiologists at St. Luke's Hospital. Bean said he represented Western
Anesthesiology Associates, which ran the anesthesiology department at St. John's
Mercy, was in the process of forming an LLC with the group that ran the
department at St. Anthony's Hospital and also had plans to begin discussions
with two doctors at St. Luke's about running the department there. Bean ended
the memo this way: "i am not sure how our rep of your doctor would impact
western so i am not sure that i want you to tell him that we represent western.
but I did want you to have my info. "

After Joshi's preliminary hearing in front of three St. Luke's doctors but
before the scheduled full hearing was held, Joshi resigned from St. Luke's
Hospital, stating in a letter he was doing so "in order to proceed with a
program of employment and professional development at the University of
Missouri. " The full hearing was canceled because Joshi's resignation eliminated
the need for it.

Joshi's lawsuit against SPvG alleges Ries and the hospital secretly agreed to
waive the full hearing with the knowledge that the waiver and Joshi's
resignation from the hospital would prevent Joshi from successfully suing the
hospital.

A memo Ries wrote for the case file on May 17, 1996, shows the hospital "lobbied
and negotiated" for a resolution that included Joshi's voluntary retirement.
Joshi alleges in the lawsuit that Ries never told him the hospital broached the
topic of settlement but instead made the doctor think the resignation was Ries'
idea. Nor did Ries tell him the hospital was afraid of a lawsuit from Joshi -
information that "would have been of immense help in devising Plaintiff's
strategy at the May 31, 1996 hearing," according to Chaganti's filing. The
amended petition also alleges Joshi didn't authorize Ries to negotiate a
settlement with the hospital, nor did he authorize the lawyer to discuss Joshi's
litigation strategies with the hospital.

The file memo shows Ries and Richard A. Wunderlich, the hospital's attorney,
agreed Joshi's voluntary resignation would "moot any need" for the full hearing.
But the memo also shows Ries objected to the hospital's request that Joshi fully
release the hospital from any claims.

Ries wrote in the file memo: "I also observed that the resignation and close of
these proceedings without any adverse final determination by the Board would
certainly tend to stand in the way of any effective approach to a lawsuit. But I
pointed out that we and Dr. Joshi cannot know everything that has occurred, and
that it would be asking too much to have Joshi requested to sign some kind of
full release when he would already be relinquishing his privileges by the
resignation to pursue the program in Columbia. "

In the same memo, Ries said he told Wunderlich he didn't expect Joshi to sue and
that the firm had not recommended he do so. A Jan. 22, 1996, file memo drafted
by Ries states Joshi and his wife had been "clearly informed" that SPvG
generally wouldn't undertake a "revenge or strike-type" lawsuit against the
hospital because the firm is in the practice of defending, not suing, health
care providers.

If Joshi's lawsuit survives the law firm's motion for summary judgment, then the
burden will be on him to show there was a substantial relationship between
SPvG's earlier representation of the hospital and its representation of Joshi,
according to Washington University law professor Peter Joy, who is known as an
expert in legal ethics. Joy is not involved in this lawsuit.

In addition, Joshi will need to connect the dots between the defense he received
from the law firm and the amount of work the law firm received from the
hospital, said Joy. "Coincidence alone isn't enough," he said.

"If they are in discussions with the hospital about possibly representing the
hospital in the future at the same time that they're representing the doctor,
that would be a conflict of interest," he said. "On the other hand, if they
wanted to represent the hospital in the future but they weren't in discussions
with the hospital, that wouldn't pose a conflict of interests. "

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                     February 11, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Masan Court Duocuobingju Care Care Spring Migrant
Workers

LENGTH: 536  words


Beijing, Feb. 11 -- Mashan County People's Court against migrant workers return
home during the Spring Festival time to focus, higher number of features, and
actively carry out "care and support for migrant workers' activities, taken a
number of convenient measures to safeguard their legitimate rights and
interests.



Open "green action channel migrant workers." Hospital services in the lawsuit
filed hall window opened up a "green action channel migrant workers" on the
return of migrant workers labor disputes, workers' compensation, medical
malpractice and other cases the implementation of the priority placed on file.
Meanwhile, due to injuries mobility of migrant workers, the implementation of
filing or home phone filing, providing favorable conditions for migrant workers
litigation. 2014  1 January to 10 February, the hospital filed a total of 253,
634 people, including cases involving migrant workers to 189, 440 people.

During the trial focus on the implementation of aspects of the legitimate rights
and interests of migrant workers. Assizes hospital as a platform to focus on the
admissibility of cases migrant workers, the implementation of in-place file,
place the trial, local mediation, place closed "one-stop" service model. 2014  1
January to 10 February, the hospital weeks deer, ancient and nobile zero to
three people's courts concluded assizes way cases involving migrant workers 29,
45 people. Meanwhile, cases involving migrant workers to give priority to
implementation to maximize the maintenance and protection of migrant workers'
legitimate rights and interests. 2014  1 January to 10 February, the hospital
rulings involving cases of two migrant workers, rulings subject of more than
15,000 yuan. January 30, hospital and police officers in New Year's Eve together
on this day fast rulings of cases of migrant workers pay talks, the successful
implementation of section 4452 yuan was executed, the applicant Hwang expressed
satisfaction.

Multiple ways to carry out legal advocacy. Hospital before and after the Spring
Festival, the organization of police officers go to the countryside, factories,
bus, etc. migrant workers gathering place, to carry out special legal advocacy
activities on basic legal knowledge migrant workers, employment and other
aspects of the site legal advice. January 20, dean of the hospital Qinge Bing
toy factory Mashan wide surplus of migrant workers to carry out activities of
sympathy, and to raise labor contract workers, social security and other issues
were answered; January 22, the hospital Mission sent two police officers to
participate in the county organization's "2014 Rural Youth League Information
Service Month" activities, to the town of migrant workers Week deer publicity of
legal knowledge; February 10, the hospital sent seven police officers to the
county bus station, to migrant workers coming back to the city to provide legal
advice. According to statistics, the legal publicity activities undertaken by
the hospital before and after the Spring Festival, migrant workers were
distributed to more than 200 copies of the brochure, 20 people received legal
advice, by the return of migrant workers unanimous praise, received good effect.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                             April 18, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Stand-in doctor cleared of fault

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 555 words


The legal duty of doctors when they cover for each other has come under the
spotlight after a recent Durban High Court judgment dealing with medical
negligence.

In the case, Judge Johan Ploos van Amstel ruled that Dr Abdool Suliman could not
be found responsible for birth defects suffered by a baby after being deprived
of oxygen while his mother was in labour.

The judge said while there was a "serious lapse which fell short of the degree
of care and expertise that was expected", he had been unable to find that had
the doctor acted as it is said he should have, the outcome would have been
avoided.

The court was dealing with a case in which the parents of the baby took legal
action against Life Healthcare and the specialist who delivered him at Crompton
Hospital, in Pinetown, in July 2008.

The matter was settled out of court and the parents were awarded damages.

The judge said Suliman denied he was negligent and said any settlement was made
without this admission.

But the hospital group took Suliman to court, seeking a contribution from him
towards the damages.

However, Judge Ploos van Amstel dismissed the hospital's claim, saying the onus
was on the hospital group to link the doctor's alleged negligence with the
cerebral palsy suffered by the baby.

The baby's mother was admitted to hospital at 10am.

Her own doctor was not available, but had arranged with Suliman to cover for
him.

Hospital staff called Suliman and he advised on treatment for the mother and was
given telephonic updates until around 9.20pm when he arrived at the hospital and
discovered that the baby was in distress and had to be delivered immediately.

Legal duty

Suliman's legal team had argued that he owed the patient no legal duty until he
arrived at the hospital.

But Judge Ploos Van Amstel said Suliman had owed the patient a legal duty from
the time that he was notified of her admission and started to manage her
treatment.

However, he went on, if the doctor had gone to the hospital after the 6.35pm
call - which, it was suggested during proceedings, he should have done - he
would have arrived at about 7.30 pm

"The question is whether this would have avoided the harm that caused the
cerebral palsy," he said. But the judge said an expert could not say with any
certainty that the Â­outcome could have been avoided.

In response to questions from The Mercury, Suliman's attorney Sivi Pather, from
Pather and Pather Attorneys, said as far as the firm was aware, this was the
first time that a medical malpractice case dealing with one doctor covering for
another had come before a court in this country.

"There is nothing in the medical legislation or ethical rules that deals with
how covering is to take place, albeit that the judge in this matter accepted
that covering is a universal practice."

He said his client had not visited the patient earlier because in terms of his
covering arrangement, he was only to attend to any emergency or actual delivery
of the baby.

Pather also said his client had given instructions based on the information
provided by hospital staff.

"Had he been correctly advised of the baby's condition, he would have realised
that there was in fact foetal distress and he would have attended the hospital
immediately."

Barries Barnard, the manager of Crompton Hospital, said the group intended to
appeal against the judgment.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            August 22, 2004, Sunday

BUG SURVIVOR IN NEW BATTLE;
 MRSA MAN'S LONDON HOSPITAL ACTION ROW

BYLINE: DONNA CARTON

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 501 words

HIGHLIGHT: SURVIVOR: Noel McGarrigle, who contracted MRSA


SUPERBUG survivor Noel McGarrigle can't battle the hospital in which he nearly
died.. because he lives in Northern Ireland.

The father-of-three said he has been left without recourse to the law because of
legal aid rules.

The father-of-three was left fighting for his life when he contracted MRSA - the
most dangerous and contagious hospital-acquired infection - following a heart
bypass operation.

However, because he was in hospital in England, he can't get legal aid in
Northern Ireland and, he said, he can't find a solicitor in England who doesn't
demand hundreds of pounds up front.

Mr McGarrigle, 56, was supposed to be in Hammersmith Hospital, London for seven
days, but ended up staying seven gruelling weeks.

He couldn't eat, was fed through tubes, couldn't walk and could barely sleep
throughout his MRSA ordeal.

He said: "When I was eventually allowed home, my wounds began to grow outwards
and the scabs had to be cut off. I was in a terrible state.

"I didn't know I had MRSA until I was told the day before I went home. I was so
ill during those seven weeks, I didn't know if I'd live or die. It was terrible.

"Then when I decided to seek legal help to see if there was any action I could
take against the hospital, I was told I couldn't get legal aid here, only in
England. I have contacted a lot of solicitors there and they want around pounds
500 before they even open my file.

"I don't have that kind of money. So what am I supposed to do?"

Mr McGarrigle has been trying to seek compensation for his hospital trauma for
more than a year.

"MRSA has been all over the news and Government Minister John Reid said he was
going to fight to get rid of it. Can Mr Reid tell me what I should do to get
answers from Hammersmith Hospital?"

When Mr McGarrigle, from Strabane, County Tyrone, was in hospital, he was so
concerned about the cleanliness of his ward he phoned the doctor who had
arranged his treatment in London to come over to inspect the hospital.

"There were 16 of us sharing one toilet. I also noticed that some nurses washed
their hands as they came into the critical ward while others didn't," claimed Mr
McGarrigle.

"Cleaners came in and out of our ward without any protective clothing on and
even emptied buckets of dirty water into our toilet."

The prevalence of MRSA has become a major problem for hospitals and a serious
health issue for the Government.

Every NHS trust in London was recently asked whether it had enough facilities to
treat patients with MRSA in separate areas. All hospitals accept that patients
with the bug should be treated in isolation.

However, it was revealed that only four hospitals in London - the Royal Marsden,
the Royal Free, Moorfields Eye Hospital and Queen Mary's, Sidcup - insisted that
people with hospital-acquired infections used separate bathrooms and toilets.

But almost half of the 24 London hospitals that replied said they "sometimes" or
"occasionally" ran out of space.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.


                              94 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 10, 1996, Saturday, City Edition

Hospital outspent city by almost 10-1 on ads

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital spent almost 10 times more than the city in
advertising seeking to persuade voters to defeat a November referendum that
would have given the City Commission permission to sell the hospital.

The hospital has reported spending $ 228,687 for a media blitz that included
television, radio and newspaper advertisements, according to a tally of
hospital campaign reports done by City Clerk Kathy Alesafis. The tally also
included $ 2,595 in legal expenses.

Comparatively, the city spent $ 25,328 on newspaper and mail advertisements,
city records indicate.

"They spent a lot of money and they won," Mayor Anita Protos said.

City and hospital officials had been feuding over the future of Helen Ellis
Memorial Hospital.

City officials wanted to persuade voters to sell the 150-bed non-profit
hospital, which is owned by the city but run by a private foundation. Hospital
foundation officials opposed the sale.

The foundation prevailed, though, when voters overwhelmingly refused to  give
the City Commission authority to sell Helen Ellis.

Lester Garner, hospital board chairman, said no services at Helen Ellis  were
sacrificed to pay the advertising bills.

He did say, however, that it was money taken from the hospital's operating
budget that might have been used later to buy more equipment.

"I think it's wasted money," Garner said. "I think it's a shame we were  put
into a position that we had to spend that money."

Garner said he is skeptical of the city's reported expenses, which weren't
required to be filed with the City Clerk.

"I think that's low-balling," he said.

But the hospital might see its expenses go down, according to a Feb. 7  letter
from hospital administrator Joe Kiefer to Alesafis.

Kiefer, who could not be reached for comment Friday, told her he is still
awaiting a final bill from the hospital's Pittsburgh-based public relations
firm and some credits might be included.

Advertising bills haven't been the only expenses for both sides. They've  also
had hefty legal bills.

The city has spent more than $ 100,000 in legal fees, and a tally of the
hospital's legal expenses wasn't available Friday.

But there's no end in sight to the legal bills either because a lawsuit,  filed
by the hospital to clear up lease disputes with the city, is still  pending.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              95 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             June 16, 1991, Sunday

Hospital releases legal costs

BYLINE: By Robert J. Vickers Staff writerhospitals; gwinnett/county; finances;
investigations; costs; law; lawsuits

SECTION: EXTRA; SECTION J; PAGE 01

LENGTH: 612 words


Answering concerns that it is paying too much in legal fees, the Gwinnett
Hospital System (GHS) released figures Friday indicating that it has paid an
average of $ 208,700 a year for outside counsel since 1987.

"Any way you look at it, we're running a business," Gwinnett Hospital Authority
Chairman Jim E. Hinshaw Sr. said Friday. "It's a fact of life that hospitals,
just like any other business, have got to employ lawyers to take care of you.
And it's a fact of life that the law is written in such a way that it takes a
lawyer to interpret the laws."

The figures were compiled at the request of state Rep. Vinson Wall
(R-Lawrenceville), who told the county system he wanted a breakdown of legal
expenses for the past five years and salaries for employees who make more than $
50,000 annually.

Some residents are concerned that while GHS is complaining about the County
Commission's $ 500,000 reduction in funding for indigent care, it is spending
too much fighting a planned expansion by competitor Humana Hospital Gwinnett -
which wants to move its operation to another location in Snellville.

The Hospital Authority's executive committee will meet Wednesday and is expected
to discuss possible actions concerning Humana's move.; Focus on largest firm

Mr. Wall's inquiry focused specifically on Atlanta's largest law firm, King &
Spalding, which was paid a $ 10,000 retainer by GHS this year for possible
future action against Humana's application for a state certificate of need for
the new hospital.

GHS has a staff attorney, W. Howard Fowler, but he advises the Hospital
Authority on legal strategy, and most legal actions are contracted out, said GHS
spokeswoman Cheryl Iverson.

Mr. Fowler has the added responsibility of operating the GHS Foundation - a
private fund-raising agency for the hospital system, she said.

According to GHS, the breakdown of spending includes:

1987 - $ 111,427 to three law firms.

1988 - $ 168,968 to eight firms.

1989 - $ 256,054 to seven firms.

1990 - $ 298,517 to six firms.

So far this year, figures indicate the hospital system has paid $ 139,136 to
seven law firms.

King & Spalding, which Ms. Iverson said is used primarily for civil cases, has
been paid about $ 28,000 this year - GHS's second-largest legal expense thus far
in 1991.

Atlanta's fourth-largest firm, Powell, Goldstein, Frazier & Murphy, was paid
more than $ 235,000 in 1990 and has received $ 58,000 in 1991. Most of the fees
were for the preparation of and appeals regarding certificate-of-need
applications for a psychiatric substance abuse center and for permission to
perform open-heart surgery, Ms. Iverson said.

GHS was certified for the abuse center, and the appeal for open- heart surgery
is ongoing.

"Our hospital was built in 1983 and we've come from nothing to just about being
on the cutting edge of excellence," Mr. Hinshaw said. "I'm proud of our system."

Other information requested by Mr. Wall included which staffers are furnished a
car by GHS and a list of employees paid more than $ 50,000 a year.

Mr. Wall could not be reached for comment.

GHS President Frank M. Rinker is the only staffer provided a car, and he and Mr.
Fowler are the two highest-paid hospital employees of the 29 earning above $
50,000, according to the GHS disclosure.

Most of the 29 hold administrative positions, but eight staff nurses also earn
more than $ 50,000, according to GHS.

"It's just a matter of being competitive," said Mr. Hinshaw. "The problem with
us is that we're so far behind. On the nursing scale we're competitive, but in
administration we're probably 10 to 15 percent behind."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The last paragraph did not appear in the final edition.

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


                              96 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyers join health-care team; CHEO partners with legal aid group to help
low-income families

BYLINE: Zev Singer, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 366 words


When a child becomes seriously ill, a parent's life can freeze in its tracks as
every resource of time, energy and money goes into caring for that son or
daughter. When those parents also have legal problems - another potentially
all-consuming challenge - the results can be disastrous.

To help address that problem, Pro Bono Law Ontario announced Wednesday that it
has formed a partnership with the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario to help
lowincome families resolve those legal problems and allow those parents to focus
on their kids.

Those legal issues could relate to employment, family law, immigration,
health-care coverage, tax law and beyond.

"CHEO's goal is to better connect care within our walls and beyond our walls to
help kids and families be their healthiest," said Alex Munter, CHEO's president
and chief executive officer.

The program is the first of a planned series of "Connected Care" initiatives by
the hospital to help families tap into other resources in areas that can impact
on health, such as housing, poverty and legal issues.

Pro Bono Law Ontario began a similar program at the Hospital for Sick Children
in Toronto four years ago, which now helps about 400 families a year. Programs
have followed at the Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital, also in
Toronto, and the Children's Hospital in London, Ont.

Law firm Borden Ladner Gervais will be providing the free legal services for the
program at CHEO, with other firms potentially joining as needed.

Ottawa lawyer David Scott, cochair of Borden Ladner Gervais, said that to
encourage lawyers to do the pro bono work, his firm, like some others, allows
approved pro bono

work to count as billable hours.

"Once a project is approved, there's no pain, in terms of advancement for the
lawyer for doing it," Scott said.

"This is important because a lot of the work is done by younger lawyers and
otherwise it would be a disincentive."

Scott, who is on the board of Pro Bono Law Ontario, said the program at Sick
Kids showed how great the need is for such legal services.

He said he has no doubt that the CHEO pro bono program will soon be seen as
"essential" at the hospital.

zsinger@ottawacitizen.com twitter.com/zev_singer

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Mikula, Ottawa Citizen; Ottawa's David Scott, co-chair of Borden
Ladner Gervais, says the law firm makes it possible for young lawyers to take on
unpaid work on programs such as the one at CHEO , without their careers
suffering.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne)

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Commissioners to hire lawyer to oversee hospital partnership

BYLINE: Becky Orr

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Main; Pg. 5-3 NEWS County comm., CRMC

LENGTH: 346 words


bkm

Commissioners to hire lawyer to oversee hospital partnership

At a glance

The local hospital board agreed Wednesday to pay for a lawyer for the Laramie
County Commission, who will advise the commission during efforts to form a
partnership between the Cheyenne and Casper hospitals.

By Becky Orr

borr@wyomingnews.com

CHEYENNE - Laramie County commissioners will hire a lawyer to advise them on a
proposed partnership between the local hospital and the one in Casper.

Cheyenne Regional Medical Center agreed Wednesday to reimburse the county for up
to $100,000 in legal fees.

Laramie County owns the Cheyenne hospital. Commissioners have the final say on
any changes in how it's governed.

They will not feel comfortable making some decisions without outside help,
Commissioner Gay Woodhouse said. She asked for legal help at a special hospital
board meeting early Wednesday morning.

"For us to fulfill our duties, we need special expertise," Woodhouse said after
the meeting.

Commissioners support the partnership, but want help from someone who
understands the legal principles involved, she said.

The hospital board voted 5-2 Wednesday in favor of helping the county hire a
lawyer.

Hospital board members Paul Howard and Bill Larson voted against.

"It seems like we're duplicating efforts," Howard said. Other board members
asked if the legal help is necessary.

The hospital board needed to know how much a lawyer would cost, Larson said.

Woodhouse didn't have a firm cost. She said it would be well below $100,000.

Commissioners will hire Wayne Dube from Chicago, Ill. He specializes in
health-care issues, she said.

Commissioners want to make sure the county doesn't lose control of the hospital,
she added.

In June, CRMC agreed to reimburse the county up to $300,000. The money was for
the commissioners to hire a consultant to do a hospital study.

The hospital hired its own consultant, too.

The study came in response to an offer from an outside company to buy the
hospital.

Commissioners spent $200,000 on the study. The money for new legal fees will
come from what's left of the $300,000.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Cheyenne Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 4:01 PM GMT

Wythenshawe doctors officially launch legal action over hospital shake-up;
A group of consultants - backed by hundreds of medical staff - have filed
judicial review papers against plans to move surgery out of the hospital

BYLINE: By Jennifer Williams

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 596 words


A group of senior Wythenshawe doctors have officially launched legal action
against the NHS over 'catastrophic' plans to move surgery out of the hospital.

'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a company set up for the purpose - has lodged court
papers aimed at triggering a judicial review of the decision, taken by clinical
commissioners over the summer.

NHS bosses say it could cost the system £500,000 in legal costs.

The doctors have launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together
hospital shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the
region.

They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal surgery - but
Wythenshawe, to the fury of doctors, MPs and some local councillors, was not one
of those chosen.

As a result a small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's
much larger medical staffing committee, has now launched legal action against
Greater Manchester's 12 clinical commissioning groups.

In a statement, the doctors - who are represented by lawyers Irwin Mitchell -
said the move would 'downgrade' the hospital.

Lawyer Mathieu Culverhouse said they believed the decision was 'unlawful' and
had not taken clinical outcomes into account, adding that the impact could be
'catastrophic'.

Healthier Together

Speaking on behalf of Keep Wythenshawe Special, consultant surgeon Andrew
Macdonald added: "It is with great regret that we feel we have been left with no
choice but to take formal legal action. We have not been given the assurances we
sought from the commissioning groups and have real concerns about how the plans
will affect patient safety in the Greater Manchester region."

But Healthier Together and the council leader in charge of health for the region
have both hit back.

Dr Nigel Guest, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and one of those who gave
Stepping Hill specialist status over Wythenshawe, said commissioners were
'extremely disappointed' with the move, which he claimed was not backed by the
hospital's board.

An initial £500,000 has been put on one side to defend the challenge, he said,
adding: "We have met with these individuals a number of times to understand
their concerns and tried to resolve the issue collaboratively, rather than going
through a legal process. However, the group have refused further meetings and
have formed a private company, Keep Wythenshawe Special, in order to sue the
NHS."

He also accused the doctors of scaremongering by writing to GPs earlier this
month claiming the hospital's A&E could close.

Lord Peter Smith, who leads on health devolution for the combined authority,
said the move could 'halt' the recruitment of 13 new A&E doctors and 22
surgeons, adding that the entire shake-up had been about improving all
hospitals.

A judge is expected to look at the bid in the next couple of months before
ruling whether or not the review can go ahead.

But is understood the Healthier Together shake-up will largely continue as
planned while the legal process rumbles on.

In a separate statement, the chief executive of University Hospitals South
Manchester NHS Trust, Attila Vegh, made no direct reference to the legal action.

He said the trust 'understood and shared the concerns' of the doctors about the
impact of the decision on the hospital, however, stressing that UHSM's board had
been working 'tirelessly' to 'keep Wythenshawe special'.

But he said a new clinical leadership board - proposed by Healthier Together to
'work through' the clinical concerns - was welcome.

Sources said the UHSM board wished to see the issues resolved outside of the
legal process.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Harney in legal bid to avert health 'nightmare'

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 628 words


THE Government is attempting to rush through emergency laws in a bid to avert
another constitutional crisis that could leave the State vulnerable to a raft of
major lawsuits.

Health Minister Mary Harney is bringing in the emergency legislation next week
after it emerged there is no legal basis for 19 key health bodies.

It is the latest in of a series of political blunders endured by the Government
since it was returned to power.

And there are major question marks over Ms Harney's handling of this latest
health debacle after it emerged the major flaws were spotted six months ago.

If Ms Harney does not succeed in pushing through the emergency laws it could
face the nightmare prospect of a wave of legal challenges. And they could put
the brakes on major health projects, including hospital co-location and the
proposed new national children's hospital.

The bodies include the Blood Transfusion Service Board, St James's Hospital and
Beaumont Hospital. These two hospitals are due to have co-located private
hospitals

But the list also includes bodies set up in recent years such as the National
Treatment Purchase and the National Cancer Screening Service, only established
in January of this year.

Further legislation will be required next year in this area and the emergence of
the loophole has also cast a doubt over six bodies set up in the local
government sector.

It is also unclear precisely when and how Ms Harney was alerted to the legal
loophole.

The minister was told on May 23, just the day before the general election, that
the law in question allowed her to set up a body to plan the new children's
hospital.

Ms Harney set up the National Paediatric Hospital Development Board.

At some point over the following weeks, her officials say a potential flaw was
identified in the law as the department examined how the body would be funded.

The precise date of this development is unknown.

The problem was subsequently referred to the Attorney-General's office, who
hired an external barrister to look into it.

Then on June 22, question marks emerged over the co-location aspects of the law,
but the minister's officials insist this was not the first time the problem was
identified.

Of foot of the examination, the Government's legal adviser, Attorney-General
Paul Gallagher, cast serious doubt on the legal status of bodies set up under
legislation dating from the 1960s and said the law might be found to be
unconstitutional.

This legal vulnerability needed to be tackled urgently, necessitating the
emergency legislation to be rushed through before the Dail breaks up next week
for Christmas.

But the A-G's advice was received on October 26 and the need for the emergency
legislation was only flagged later. Ms Harney's spokesman put this six-week
delay down to the complex nature of the legislation.

The Labour Party is planning to oppose aspects of the legislation as it says the
sections dealing with co-location are not urgent. Labour's Liz McManus is
objected to the law strengthening the legal rights of St James's and Beaumont
hospitals to enter co-location agreements to develop private hospitals on site.

Effectively, Ms Harney and several previous health ministers were overstepping
the line because the Oireachtas delegated law-making ability to a single
minister and that is not allowed under the Separation of Powers.

The bombshell revelation that a 46-year-old law that allowed a succession of
health ministers to establish various health agencies may be unconstitutional
was unveiled after external legal advice was received by Mr Gallagher.

The newly appointed A-G said the powers conferred on the Health Minister under
the 1961 Health (Corporate Bodies) Act were "so broad" that their
constitutionality was in jeopardy.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday
                                  City Edition

DONATIONS ARE FOR MILITARY

BYLINE: STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: NEWS; MEDICAL BRIEFS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 649 words


RSVP of Central Oklahoma seeks donations for the Airmen's Attic at Tinker Air
Force Base, which provides supplemental food and household items for local
military personnel and their families, and the Adopt-A-Unit program that sends
care packages to military personnel serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Donations
of canned foods, especially meat, and nonperishable food items are needed. Items
will be distributed to military personnel and their families stationed at Tinker
Air Force Base. Small personal items, including lotions that are needed in dry
climates, will go to care packages distributed overseas by The Adopt-A-Unit
program, which also needs playing cards and beef jerky. RSVP now supports both
programs year-round. Bring donations from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through
Friday to RSVP of Central Oklahoma at 7401 NE 23. RSVP of Central Oklahoma
promotes volunteerism among people 55 and older. For information on RSVP
membership and activities call 605-3110, or use:  www.rsvpokc.org.

STUDY FINDS SLOW RESPONSE TIMES

In a new national study that included 117 Oklahomans, medical researchers
concluded that heart attack victims aren't taken quickly enough to hospitals
best suited for procedures to open narrowed or blocked coronary arteries. Early
treatment is associated with significant improvement in outcomes, including
reduced mortality, said Dr. Dale Bratzler, associate dean of the University
Oklahoma College of Public Health. Researchers found fewer than one in 10
patients was transferred from one hospital to another in the recommended time of
30 minutes or less. This is particularly relevant in a largely rural state like
Oklahoma, which has many small hospitals that must transfer patients from one
hospital to another for emergency cardiac care. The study notes that rural
hospitals may be limited by a lack of transportation, with delays waiting for
helicopter arrivals and greater distances to hospitals that have facilities for
balloon angioplasty or stent placement. Only one-fourth of acute-care hospitals
nationally can perform these procedures. In the study's small Oklahoma sample,
the average time to begin transfers between hospitals was 77 minutes - 11th
worst in the nation.

LEGAL HOTLINE IS FOR SENIORS

To give state seniors quick access to civil legal assistance on issues including
medical-bill debt, Legal Aid Services of Oklahoma now has a statewide telephone
hotline. It is the Sixty Plus Legal Aid Services Helpline, or SPLASH, and
provides free legal assistance to persons 60 and older in most Oklahoma
counties. Oklahomans 60 and over can call SPLASH at (855) 488-6814. SPLASH calls
will be answered by one of four application specialists from 8:30 a.m. to 5
p.m., Mondays through Fridays. The application is forwarded to the local Legal
Aid offices, and the senior will receive a return call within 19 business days.
Time-sensitive calls will be handled by the local office with priority. For
questions about SPLASH, call 488-6824.

OMRF SEEKS FLEMING SCHOLARS

The Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation is now accepting applications for its
2012 Fleming Scholar Program. The application deadline is Feb. 1. To qualify,
applicants must be at least age 16, and Oklahoma residents at the time of high
school graduation. High school seniors, as well as college freshmen, sophomores
and juniors, are eligible to apply. Students selected as Fleming Scholars work
for eight weeks with OMRF scientists on individual research projects. Projects
focus on a variety of research areas, such as cancer, lupus or heart disease. If
eligible, scholars are paid and also receive free housing. Named for Sir
Alexander Fleming, the Nobel-prize winning scientist who dedicated OMRF, the
scholarship program has provided summer research experiences to some 500
Oklahoma science students since 1956. For more information and application
forms, go to  www.omrf.org/fleming.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday

Hospital's gripe does not wash

SECTION: OPINION; Opinion; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 832 words


It was one of the better examples of how appearances can deceive. Last week, it
emerged that the Health Service Executive underspent its capital budget by
almost EUR 100 million, and now has to give the money back. On the same day, it
was reported that the National Maternity Hospital (in Holles Street, Dublin) had
been turned down by the HSE for additional funding to enable it to clean its
facility more thoroughly, writes Mary Raftery.

Clearly another example of HSE incompetence, one might think, in this instance
potentially endangering babies and their mothers by refusing essential funding
to clean a busy maternity hospital, while at the same time handing money back
because it was incapable of spending it on a health service which remains
chronically underfunded.

However, while there is little excuse for the HSE's underspend, things are not
quite as clear when it comes to Holles Street.

The hospital was commendably frank in its recently published annual report for
2006 on its cleaning problems, particularly about the "urgent need" for more
frequent cleaning. As everyone is now well aware of the connection between dirty
hospitals and life-threatening infections, the allocation of sufficient funding
to hygiene should be a key priority for all health facilities. In the case of
Holles Street, however, there are other items of major expenditure that it is
not quite so frank about. These concern the substantial legal costs of its
battle to keep secret some of the records relating to the retention by the
hospital of the organs of deceased babies.

Holles Street was one of the more active hospitals in terms of retaining babies'
organs after postmortem examination, invariably without either the consent or
the knowledge of the infants' parents. These parents, through the organisation
Parents For Justice, sought the release of the relevant documentation from all
the maternity and paediatric hospitals involved in this practice throughout the
State. All but one eventually capitulated. Holles Street not only refused, but
then took a High Court action against the Information Commissioner, who had
ruled that the Holles Street records be released under the Freedom of
Information Act.

The documents in question relate to the material sent by Holles Street to the
Dunne inquiry, which had been established to examine the entire issue of organ
retention, and which was closed down by the government in 2005 without
publishing a full report.

In the absence of such a report, the parents are attempting to piece together
exactly what the various hospitals told the inquiry. In the case of Holles
Street, according to its legal representatives, these records contain "highly
confidential and sensitive information [providing] information on post mortem
practices and procedures".

Two months ago, the High Court dismissed the appeal by Holles Street against the
decision of the Information Commissioner that the records be released. It found
against the hospital on all six grounds quoted and ruled that the Information
Commissioner had been correct in each instance.

The hospital had 28 days from the date of this judgment to release the records
to Parents For Justice. This deadline ran out weeks ago, and still no documents
have been handed over.

In addition, Holles Street refuses to say how much the legal action has cost the
hospital. It will have to pay the costs of the other side in addition to its
own. At a rough and highly conservative estimate, these will amount to at least
EUR 250,000 - a figure which would buy quite a lot of cleaning materials.

Holles Street receives most of its funding from the taxpayer, through the HSE.
The State, however, does not own the hospital and it remains unclear what, if
any, sanctions can be applied in the context of a hospital spending exchequer
funds on futile legal battles rather than on, for instance, cleanliness and
infection control.

In terms of the hospital's governance, it is worth noting that the 2006 annual
report for Holles Street informs us that of the six ex-officio members of the
hospital's board of governors, no fewer than four are Roman Catholic priests.

The expenditure by Holles Street on its legal battles was firmly criticised by
the Information Commissioner, Emily O'Reilly. In her 2004 annual report, she
wrote that "the behaviour of the Hospital in this case amounted to obstruction
of my Office . . . In conducting its business with my Office in this manner, the
Hospital is likely to have incurred substantial and mostly unnecessary legal
costs which ultimately must be at the expense of the taxpayer."

Meanwhile, in the cleanliness stakes, Holles Street is the dirtiest of the three
large Dublin maternity hospitals. Although it did improve last year, its record
on general cleanliness in wards, toilets and kitchens, and on hand hygiene in
some areas, remains in the "poor" category.

The attempt by Holles Street to blame the HSE and its refusal to release funds
for this simply will not wash.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 07, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Death of 'Baby K' Leaves a Legacy of Legal Precedents

Marylou Tousignant; Bill Miller, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 596 words


She was known nationwide as "Baby K," a little girl born at Fairfax Hospital 2
1/2 years ago missing most of her brain. She lived in a pediatric nursing
facility nearby -- unable, doctors said, to think, hear or see -- while her
mother sat at her bedside and prayed for a miracle.

A groundbreaking legal case that eventually landed at the Supreme Court forced
Fairfax Hospital to keep the child alive whenever she had trouble breathing and
was rushed to its emergency room. And it was there this week that Stephanie
Keene, "Baby K," died of cardiac arrest.

"She's in heaven. She's in peace," the child's mother, Contrenia Harrell, said
yesterday from her home in Springfield. "Knowing that she's with God is a
comfort," added Harrell, a woman whose deep faith told her there was always hope
for her daughter, even as doctors insisted there was none.

Stephanie died Wednesday afternoon, 30 minutes after being rushed by ambulance
to Fairfax Hospital for the sixth -- and final -- time.

Harrell and a friend, Larry Bright, arrived shortly after and spent several
minutes alone with the child. "I said a prayer and Contrenia kinda, you know,
she was just kinda caught up," Bright said. "They did let her take a picture,
and that was nice. They didn't have to do that."

It was just a few months ago -- after the Supreme Court let stand a lower court
ruling ordering Fairfax Hospital to keep the baby alive as the mother wished --
that Harrell came forward publicly to talk about her daughter's rare condition.
She showed reporters several photographs of Stephanie, weighing 35 pounds and
wearing a knit hat on her flattened head, and said she felt exhausted and angry
over the protracted legal battle with the hospital.

Stephanie was born Oct. 13, 1992, with a congenital defect of unknown cause
called anencephaly, in which a major portion of the skull and brain are missing.
Between 1,000 and 2,000 such babies are born each year in the United States, but
most live only a few days, doctors say.

In Stephanie's case, the legal tussle between Harrell and Fairfax Hospital
triggered an emotional and far-reaching debate over what care should be provided
for the hopelessly ill and who should decide.

Stephanie, who appears to have made medical as well as legal history by living
as long as she did, had medical bills approaching $ 500,000, which were covered
by Harrell's insurance and Medicaid. Hospital officials have denied any
suggestion that money prompted their lawsuit, noting that Stephanie's hospital
bill before her death -- nearly $ 250,000 -- had been paid in full.

Stephanie's condition was diagnosed by ultrasound when her mother was 16 weeks
pregnant. Harrell declined to have an abortion, believing, she said, that "all
life is precious" and that God, not doctors and not herself, would guide
Stephanie's.

The baby's father, whose relationship with Harrell ended before he learned she
was pregnant, found out about his daughter's condition the day she was born.
Although he supported the hospital's position that extraordinary measures should
not be taken to keep her alive, he visited her several times, both in the
hospital and at the nursing facility.

As Harrell struggled yesterday with how she would pay for her daughter's
funeral, her attorney, Ellen Flannery, provided Stephanie with a legal epitaph:
"I think we established some legal principles that will benefit patients and
their families who are trying to make decisions [on medical treatment],"
Flannery said. "These legal principles will live on beyond 'Baby K.' "

LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              103 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             January 8, 2016 Friday

Police Surgeon post lying vacant in city

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 08

LENGTH: 232  words


The post of Police Surgeon Karachi has been lying vacant in the city for one
week and provincial health department Sindh authorities concerned has failed  to
finalize the name of official for this important post, it was learned on
Thursday.

An official of health department Sindh told newsmen that Police Surgeon Karachi
post has been lying vacant for one week and high-ups of department has failed to
appoint any official on that post. He said police surgeon Karachi is one of
major posts in medic-legal department but due to non-serious attitude of the
health department the post is lying vacant.

All administrative and official works in medico-legal departments of three major
and six other hospitals have badly affected due non-appointment police surgeon
Karachi on vacant post.

Official explained Dr Shagufta was working as Police Surgeon Karachi earlier,
who retired from her post on 31st December 2015 and post is lying vacant since
then.

He said three major hospitals of city having the facility of Medico-legal
Officers (MLOs) like ASH,JPMC and CHK, while medico-legal department in six
other hospitals like  Lyari General Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New
Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital
Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Qatar Orangi Town and Sindh Government
Hospital Karachi Korangi are partially non-functional due to shortage of MLOs.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                  May 29, 1998

More moans are expected

BYLINE: By Paul Turner

SECTION: Health: HOSPITALS, Pg.7

LENGTH: 173 words


BOSSES at Singleton Hospital are predicting a jump in the number of complaints
against the hospital this year.

But the number of court actions against the hospital is expected to fall.

The reason, according chief executive at the hospital David Will-iams, is
changes to legal aid legislation.

Tougher

He said the Government had made it tougher for people to receive legal aid when
trying to sue organisations, including hospitals.

"Solicitors are likely to advise their clients to initially pursue the
complaints procedure before contemplating any legal action," said Mr Williams.

"We are quite sure that the number of complaints will rise this year and the
number of legal actions will drop slightly," added Mr Williams

He said there had been 52 complaints against Swansea NHS Trust, which runs
Singleton, in 1997 -98.

That figure compared with 54 the previous year.

The trust also received 1,404 letters of appreciation in the three months up to
the end of March, compared to 1,232 in the same period the year before.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post


                              105 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                 Mersey Edition

Anti-hospital campaigner is stripped of his legal aid;
health: Semoffwill appeal legal aid decision

BYLINE: MarcWaddington ;Liza Williams marc

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words


THE campaigner who stood to derail hopes of the massive rebuild of the Royal
Liverpool Hospital has been stripped of the legal aid he intended to use to
fight his case in the High Court.

Sam Semoff, of the Keep Our NHS public pressure group which is opposed to
taxpayers money being used to fund the pounds 451m private finance deal, has
been told he will no longer be entitled to public funds to mount his case. The
decision is understood to have been made by the Legal Services Commission after
complaints from pro-rebuild campaigners who questioned why his fight should be
publicly funded.

American-born Mr Semoff has previously admitted that his name had been used to
launch the bid because an individual qualifies for Legal Aid where an
organisation doesn't The group is opposed to the rebuild on the basis it will
leave the taxpayer with crippling debts, and would have to honour them before
spending on patient care. But the protest generated a wave of anger among
residents and politicians who said the delays Mr Semoff stood to cause
threatened chances of improving facilities at the hospital. Mr Semoff will now
have the opportunity to appeal the withdrawal of legal aid. It is not known how
much the challenge is now likely to set Mr Semoff back.

When asked to confirm the funding had been halted, Mr Semoff refused to be drawn
but insisted the hearing would go ahead next month. But a Legal Services
Commission spokesman said: "Legal aid funding has been withdrawn and Mr Semoff
is appealing that decision." Last night Central ward Cllr Nick Small welcomed
the Commission's move, and said he would be probing them further as to why they
agreed to fund the challenge in the first place. He had written to the
regulatory body to complain before the decision to withdraw funding was made.
Cllr Small said: "I believe this should not have been funded through legal aid
in the first place. "

It was a slap in the face to ordinary taxpayers living in Kensington Fields and
across the city. "I will now be writing to the LSC to ask them to investigate
why legal aid was granted." Kensington Fields resident Tony Graham, 59, sat on
the stakeholders group which originally looked into the Royal bid. Mr Graham,
who has been back in the hospital recently for treatment for a heart condition,
said the rebuild was in desperate need. He added: "The care is fine, but it's
the environment that isn't. "The toilets are always damaged and not working, the
floors are rising because of what they call concrete cancer, and to keep it
clean seems virtually impossible.

"When you look at the way the Edge Lane scheme was delayed, that ended up
costing a lot of money and a lot of time.We need this new hospital." Mr Semoff
said: "We are awaiting a decision from the Legal Services Commission.We are
hopeful that they will continue to fund the case." Tony Bell, chief executive at
the Royal, said: "We have been made aware by our solicitors of the withdrawal of
legal aid funding for the Judicial Review claim against the new hospital.
However, we are also aware that an appeal has been made against this decision.
"We are cautiously optimistic that the previous ruling ofMr Justice Burnett will
be upheld in the for thcoming hearing, still to take place on February 11 . "The
legal challenge so far has proved both costly and time-consuming and we are
hopeful that we shall soon be able to move forward with our bidders on our plans
to build the new Royal. "Any further comment by the Trust at this stage would
not be helpful but we recognise that this has been a matter of serious concern
to local people and partners across the city." your views EMAIL us at letters
@dailypost.co.uk, or write to POBox 48, Old Hall Street, Liverpool L69 3EB
OPINION: Page 15

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SamSemoff who is fighting the Royal Liverpool Hospital's rebuild
project, has been stripped of his legal aid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 10, 2005

OFF OUR BEDS

BYLINE: John Scott

SECTION: MIGRANT MADNESS 1; EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 487 words


NHS in £20,000 legal fight over an 'illegal' who refuses to leave hospital

AN NHS Trust has had to fight a £20,000 legal battle to get a suspected illegal
immigrant OUT of hospital.

And even after the bed-blocker caved in and left the ward he got his legal
aid-funded lawyers to try and get him free housing.

Baljit Singh was admitted to the Walsgrave Hospital in Coventry, West Midlands,
with kidney problems after arriving from India.

But when doctors told him he was well enough to leave he called in lawyers. They
won a court injunction late last month BANNING his removal. The trust had to
brief their own legal team - also funded by taxpayers - in a bid to unblock the
bed.

A judge overturned the original ruling - but Singh's legal team appealed to the
High Court to have the injunction reinstated.

They only finally backed down earlier this week just before the case was due to
be heard in London. The bill was estimated to be costing taxpayers up to
£20,000.

Singh has now set his sights on Coventry City Council, claiming they should not
have rejected his bid for free housing after he left hospital.

The council had refused because they were unsure he was entitled to stay in
Britain.

Singh's lawyers won a judicial review of the case. The council are set to fight
any decision that goes against them, costing thousands more.

In the meantime they have been ordered to look after Mr Singh - again at the
taxpayers' expense. The legal wrangle comes amid growing fears at the
£200million-a-year cost to the NHS of "health tourism" where people come to the
UK just to get free treatment.

A source with knowledge of the case said: "His lawyers claim he is here legally
but his immigration status is, at best, uncertain. There are fears he may be
here illegally.

"It is a sorry state of affairs when the NHS has to waste money on this sort of
action which also raises the ugly spectre of health tourism."

Simon Williams, of the Patients' Association pressure group, said: "I have never
heard of anything like this before. It is quite bizarre because most patients
cannot wait to leave hospital when they get better."

Alice Casey, head of the NHS Trust that runs Walsgrave Hospital, said last
night: "We have done everything in our power to discharge Mr Singh without
resorting to legal action.

"He does not need a hospital bed and while he remained the bed he occupied could
not be used for emergency or other sick patients.

"We had no alternative."

Mr Singh asked for council accommodation - and free transport to get him back to
the hospital for dialysis treatment three times a week.

He has been kept at a secret address since he left hospital earlier this week
with the bill being picked up by social services.

The council and the Home Office refused to comment.

Sun GP Dr Carol Cooper said: "It's outrageous."

The Sun Says - Page Six


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              107 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Supervisor Voted on Issue in Which Friend Had Interest

BYLINE: David S. Fallis and Michael Laris, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 616 words


County Supervisor Bruce E. Tulloch and Leesburg lawyer Douglas L. Fleming Jr.
are close friends.

"I love the guy like a brother," Tulloch (R-Potomac) said, adding that Fleming
had encouraged him to run for office in 2003. When Tulloch won, he asked
Fleming, a substitute judge in Loudoun's General District Court, to swear him
in.

Since 2003, they have co-owned a rental house in Surfside Beach, S.C., that
earns tens of thousands of dollars in annual income, records show.

And on several occasions, Tulloch's public role has overlapped with Fleming's
professional world.

Tulloch cast votes four times in favor of Loudoun Hospital Center, which had
hired Fleming for legal advice. Tulloch voted twice for its expansion and twice
to block a planned competitor.

Health-care giant HCA Inc. had proposed building a hospital five miles southwest
of the long-established Loudoun Hospital, now called Inova Loudoun. State
officials had determined that a second hospital was needed, but Inova Loudoun
and its advocates, including Fleming, sought to thwart the competition. Some
said that it might jeopardize the existing hospital.

Fleming, 49, was one of several attorneys the hospital has retained for legal
advice, a hospital spokesman said. Fleming's two-member firm worked on land-use
and policy matters, according to court documents filed in a related lawsuit in
2005. He was also hired to represent residents opposed to the new hospital,
records show.

"This is an ill-conceived, half-baked application, and it should be denied,"
Fleming argued on behalf of the residents at a 2004 Planning Commission meeting.

In an interview, Tulloch said he did not know Fleming had done legal work for
the hospital. "We don't talk about his clients," Tulloch said. "We don't talk
about my voting. . . . It's not that type of relationship."

Had he known, Tulloch said, he would have disclosed it, but still voted.

"We've never discussed Loudoun Hospital," he said, adding that Fleming had not
appeared before him on the board.

Tulloch's appointment schedule, obtained through a public records request, notes
a meeting with Fleming and two senior hospital officials on Feb. 23, 2005, two
weeks before Tulloch voted for a health plan that helped sink the proposal for a
competing hospital. The appointment notation refers to "LHC," or Loudoun
Hospital Center.

Tulloch did not respond to questions last week about the meeting.

Fleming also represented the Islamic Saudi Academy Inc. in a zoning matter in
2003 before county officials, records show. The Saudi Academy benefited when the
county purchased 101 acres of its land at Tulloch's behest in 2004. Tulloch said
he had no idea that Fleming had done legal work for the company.

Tulloch said he sees no conflicts between his relationship with Fleming and his
public decisions. Fleming declined to answer written questions about his
relationship with Tulloch.

Tulloch, 46, has said he needs to supplement his salary as a food service
manager with Sodexho and the $22,400 he earns as a part-time county official, so
he has explored business opportunities in the county. He said he considered
opening an ice cream shop and a pizza franchise but decided against it. He is
still looking into opening a Harley-Davidson dealership, he said.

"I will also look at other ventures if they present themselves where I can make
money," Tulloch said. "My strength is getting things done. . . . People
recognize that, they see value in that and they invest in that. That's the best
way to put it. I mean, there's nothing insidious here. . . . You know, there's
no linkage," he said.

"I'm the cleanest form of government you're ever going to find."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              108 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 11, 2006

Woman in court battle to save hospital beds

LENGTH: 416 words


A former nurse will go to the High Court today in a legal action to save
hospital beds - and faces financial ruin if she loses her case.

Pensioner Pat Morris could be landed with a legal bill of £80,000 after heading
a campaign against cost-cutting moves by hospital bosses.

Mrs Morris, 65, has mounted the legal challenge against the closure of two
rehabilitation wards with 26 beds for older people at Altrincham General
Hospital near Manchester.

She hoped to be granted legal aid but has been told her application has been
turned down - so she must meet the legal bills herself.

She said that although she has a state pension of just £34, because her husband
has a pension she does not qualify for legal aid.

Despite an appeal to the Legal Services Commission, which administers Legal Aid,
it rejected the request by Health in Trafford (HIT) - a protest group headed by
Mrs Morris.

If the judge at the High Court in London rules in favour of the hospital bosses,
Mrs Morris will be landed with the £80,000 bill to pay for the legal costs of
the health trust and the court for staging the judicial review.

Mrs Morris said: "I will worry about the bill later, I can only deal with one
thing at a time. Think of the financial costs against the physical costs - the
hardship of those beds being closed to the elderly within Altrincham, the
hardship they have to go through when they become ill.

"How can you put financial costs against human costs?

"Obviously, it is frightening facing this legal bill but my barrister warned me
all along that it was a possibility.

"I don't know how I would pay that kind of money. If I lose then so do all the
people of Altrincham, especially the older people who need rehabilitation beds
close to home."

Mrs Morris will be at the High Court today to hear her barrister, acting for
free, argue that Trafford Healthcare Trust (THT) "unlawfully" closed the last
in-patient wards at Altrincham because they failed to carry out public
consultation.

At a preliminary hearing in June, Mr Justice Collins ruled the trust had an
"arguable" case to answer. He also advised Mrs Morris and her supporters to
apply for Legal Aid to avoid facing massive debts.

Hospital bosses closed the two wards in March, claiming they had no choice
because patient safety was at risk. The trust is £9m in debt.

Mrs Morris, from Altrincham, quit her job as a nurse at the hospital in 2003 to
campaign to keep the hospital open after the 16 beds were closed.

She has so far funded the campaign on her own.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday

Moving forward, Halifax Health board will take on greater role

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1003  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- A prominent businessman who led the Halifax Health Board of
Commissioners says he knew nothing of a whistleblower's concerns that would
later cost the public hospital system more than $110 million in settlement and
legal costs.

Mori Hosseini, who served on the seven-member panel from 2001 to January 2009,
says if he had been informed he would have acted.

"At theof the day, the board is representing the community," said Hosseini, CEO
of Daytona Beach-based ICI Homes, one of the area's leading home builders. "The
board has the responsibility of the welfare of the hospital. If the board were
aware, perhaps, there could have been a different outcome."

In the future, though, hospital commissioners, who are appointed by the
governor, will play a more active role in compliance issues. A five-year
corporate-integrity agreement gives the federal government greater oversight
into the hospital's operations and strengthens the board's role. The hospital
agreed to abide by its terms when settling some of the claims.

Elin Baklid-Kunz, a former compliance officer, filed the whistleblower suit in
June 2009, and it was unsealed a year later. In her deposition, Baklid-Kunz
testified she alerted the hospital's general counsel Dave Davidson about some of
her concerns in June 2008, when Hosseini was board chairman. At the time, the
compliance department reported to Davidson, who advised the board on legal
issues.

The suit accused the hospital of ignoring illegal contracts with six cancer
doctors and three neurosurgeons and overcharging Medicare for short hospital
stays. Baklid-Kunz is still employed by Halifax Health as director of physician
services.

In March, the hospital settled part of the case for $85 million, with
Baklid-Kunz and her legal team getting $20.8 million. Halifax Health reached a
tentative agreement earlier this month to settle the remaining claims involving
unnecessary Medicare admissions for $1 million. The board will meet at 5 p.m.
Monday in the hospital's France Tower to discuss litigation. A DIFFERENT
RECOLLECTION

Dr. Pam Carbiener, who also served on the board along with Hosseini, has a
different recollection of the board's involvement. She said she was aware of the
whistleblower's concerns, but she couldn't remember exactly how and when she
learned of them.

Carbiener has also served as chief of the medical staff at the hospital.

She felt satisfied the hospital's motives were pure, and it simply structured
the agreements to keep vital physicians in the community treating the poor and
indigent. She called the physicians involved in the agreements "some of the most
well respected, ethical people I have come to know."

"Because I knew the hospital's intentions were honorable, I didn't think it was
an issue," said Carbiener, an obstetrician- gynecologist with Halifax OBGYN
Associates. "I was not worried."

The board was not kept "in the dark," she said, disagreeing with Hosseini's
recollection.

In the end, the lawsuit ended up costing the hospital $86 million to settle,
$24.3 million in legal fees, and caused rating agencies to downgrade the
hospital's credit rating.

Halifax Health officials declined comment for this story, but in 2011, Ann
Martorano, who now serves as the hospital's chief operating officer, told The
News-Journal the lawsuit was never discussed during board meetings, which are
open to the public.

Although the matter was not discussed in open meetings, internal hospital
documents were drafted indicating potential problems.

In a Nov. 10, 2008, memo, the hospital's associate general counsel Audrey Pike
wrote that six contracts the hospital had with cancer doctors likely violated
the Stark Law, which prohibits compensating doctors based on referrals and
volume. She suggested self-reporting to the federal government.

A second legal opinion from McDermott Will & Emery requested later by the
hospital stated a "reasonable argument" existed that the contracts in question
could be defended in court, but it could not "provide any assurances" a judge or
the federal government would agree. That Chicago-based law firm later racked up
$17.7 million in legal fees defending the hospital in the whistleblower lawsuit.

Also, a Dec. 10, 2010, memo highlighted the chief compliance officer's concerns
about "medically unnecessary admissions of Medicare as inpatients" that could
carry a financial impact in "the millions of dollars."

MORE OVERSIGHT

Moving forward, the board will play a greater role in ensuring the hospital
complies with Medicare rules and regulations, said Bob Wade, a compliance expert
hired by the Board of Commissioners as required by the corporate integrity
agreement.

Wade said he, along with the hospital's chief compliance officer George Rousis,
will have "unfettered access" to the board and can only be fired by a majority
vote of the board. Changes in compliance personnel would have to be reported to
the Office of Inspector General.

The hospital also had to hire an independent legal reviewer to examine physician
contracts. The Baltimore firm Ober Kaler will review 75 physician arrangements
at random every year during the five-year agreement to ensure compliance.

Board members and hospital staff also had to complete training sessions, and the
hospital will file annual reports with the inspector general.

"I am very impressed with where they are at this point," said Wade, an Indiana
health care attorney who was in town Friday for a training session. "People
appear to be very focused on issues raised in the past few years. They are
taking this extremely seriously."

As to what happens next, board members have declined comment because the lawsuit
has not been finalized. Hosseini is confident they will untangle the matter.

"They have a very good board," Hosseini said. "I am sure the board will make a
good decision."

With the exception of board member Glenn Ritchey, who has served since 2000,
none of the current board members were in their positions when the issues that
led to the whistleblower lawsuit first surfaced.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              110 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday

Hospital's £10million bill for medical errors

SECTION: BASILDON NEWS (BASILDON NEWS)

LENGTH: 327 words


SOUTH Essex's two biggest hospitals paid almost £10million in compensation and
legal costs last year as a result of medical blunders.

NHS insurers paid a total of £5,081,234, in 2012/13 for claims on Basildon
Hospital, while mistakes at Southend Hospital cost £4,197,553.

The total bill for the hospital trusts is close to the equivalent of hiring 330
nurses, earning £28,000 a year.

The figures were revealed by the NHS Litigation Authority, which handles
compensation payouts on behalf of the UK's hospitals.

ABasildon Hospital spokesman said procedures had been tightened recently,
adding: "The hospital is committed to ensuring all its patients receive
good-quality, safe care.

"During the past eight months, significant work has been undertaken to ensure we
have improved systems for managing risks to patients.

"We hope thatwill be reflected in payouts by the trust in the future."

The spokesman also said Basildon's total was close the the national average.

It paid a total of £2.625million in damages, £1.997million in claimants' legal
costs and £457,894 to cover its own legal fees.

In Southend, the total bill was made up of £2.727million in damages, just over
£1million in claimants' legal costs and £356,000 for the hospital's own legal
costs.

Senior Southend Hospital managers insist every incident of negligence is
thoroughly investigated.

Sue Hardy, the trust's chief nurse, said: "We continuously work to reduce the
risk of incidents, ensuring we learn from incidents and, where necessary, change
our practice to prevent anything similar happening.

"We, naturally, regret any incidence of clinical negligence, but would like to
reassure the public it is something which occurs very rarely."

In both cases, even though the claims were settled last year, payments may
relate to mistakes made any time since 1995.

Last year, 57 negligence claims were made against Basildon Hospital and 39
against the Southend trust, though many of these may not yet have been settled

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Hospital's £10million bill for medical errors

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 327 words


SOUTH Essex's two biggest hospitals paid almost £10million in compensation and
legal costs last year as a result of medical blunders.

NHS insurers paid a total of £5,081,234, in 2012/13 for claims on Basildon
Hospital, while mistakes at Southend Hospital cost £4,197,553.

The total bill for the hospital trusts is close to the equivalent of hiring 330
nurses, earning £28,000 a year.

The figures were revealed by the NHS Litigation Authority, which handles
compensation payouts on behalf of the UK's hospitals.

ABasildon Hospital spokesman said procedures had been tightened recently,
adding: "The hospital is committed to ensuring all its patients receive
good-quality, safe care.

"During the past eight months, significant work has been undertaken to ensure we
have improved systems for managing risks to patients.

"We hope thatwill be reflected in payouts by the trust in the future."

The spokesman also said Basildon's total was close the the national average.

It paid a total of £2.625million in damages, £1.997million in claimants' legal
costs and £457,894 to cover its own legal fees.

In Southend, the total bill was made up of £2.727million in damages, just over
£1million in claimants' legal costs and £356,000 for the hospital's own legal
costs.

Senior Southend Hospital managers insist every incident of negligence is
thoroughly investigated.

Sue Hardy, the trust's chief nurse, said: "We continuously work to reduce the
risk of incidents, ensuring we learn from incidents and, where necessary, change
our practice to prevent anything similar happening.

"We, naturally, regret any incidence of clinical negligence, but would like to
reassure the public it is something which occurs very rarely."

In both cases, even though the claims were settled last year, payments may
relate to mistakes made any time since 1995.

Last year, 57 negligence claims were made against Basildon Hospital and 39
against the Southend trust, though many of these may not yet have been settled

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 3, 2004

LEGAL BLOCK ON SICK TB PATIENT

BYLINE: Michael Devine

LENGTH: 408 words


A LEADING hospital turned away a highly infectious TB patient - because of a
legal wrangle.

The Eastern European refugee was acutely ill with the respiratory disease after
arriving at Dublin Port hiding in a CONTAINER.

Pals rushed him to accident and emergency at Mater Hospital fearing for his
health.

But when docs tried to TRANSFER him to Peamount Hospital - which advertises on
its website as having a specialist national TB service - bosses there BLOCKED
the move.

Senior Peamount medics, including the medical director and senior hospital
medical officer, had AGREED to treat the man.

It also emerged today that the hospital is not admitting new patients because of
legal action this week involving its former medical director Professor Luke
Clancy whose contract has been terminated. A hospital spokeswoman said: "In
light of the legal decision, Peamount will not be admitting any new patients."

The board is also axing TB treatment as part of a five-year plan published in
2003.

Acute

This follows recommendations from the Hospital Council, which said TB patients
should be treated in acute general hospitals instead.

A spokesman denied that Peamount was the national TB referral centre. He said:
"Peamount is not an appropriate location to transfer a TB patient in need of
acute treatment.

"The optimal care of patients with tuberculosis belongs now in acute general
hospitals".

But TDs slammed the move.

They called on Health Minister Micheal Martin to step in so the patient, who has
been isolated at the Mater Hospital, can get proper treatment.

Labour TD Liz McManus said: "It is quite unacceptable that decisions by medical
personnel should be overruled by hospital managements.

"This situation cannot be allowed to continue.

"An acutely ill patient urgently requires treatment in the most appropriate
location.

"All other issues, including medical politics or legal cases, should take second
place to need.

Disgrace

"The minister must now ensure that action is taken to deliver the treatment
required."

Sinn Fein TD Caoimhghin O Caolain said it was "a disgrace" and called on Mr
Martin to "intervene directly to ensure that the TB unit is fully operational
again".

A spokesman for Mr Martin said talks between the two hospitals and the Eastern
Health Authority were under way. He added that the Minister could not intervene
because of the "legalities" involved.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              113 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           September 1, 2007 Saturday

Family seeks aid to sue hospital for negligence

BYLINE: Zoe Mak and Lilian Goh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 346 words


The family of a 63-year-old woman who died two months after surgery to remove
gallstones sought legal aid yesterday to sue Tseung Kwan O Hospital.

The family, which has accused the hospital of negligence, alleged that Chu
Mak-tai's intestine was perforated during the May 8 operation.

Shing Chi-man,  whose mother died in July, arrived at the Legal Aid Department's
offices in Admiralty yesterday accompanied by his father and legislator Andrew
Cheng Kar-foo.  Mr Shing said the family was not seeking financial compensation
and simply wanted the hospital to take responsibility for the death.

Mr Shing's mother underwent surgery to remove gallstones on May 8, but her
condition did not improve and she underwent a second operation in June. When her
condition continued to deteriorate, the family requested a transfer to another
hospital. Chu was eventually transferred to Queen Mary Hospital, where she died
on July 18.

Mr Shing said  that after the first operation, he was told by a doctor that his
mother's duodenum had been perforated.  But he was later notified by the
hospital that the damage was caused by the movement of the stent - an
expandable wire or perforated tube  -  placed in her bile duct, after the
operation.

"They [the hospital] must be hiding something," he  said.

Mr Shing said he was unable to sleep after the hospital informed him of his
mother's condition.

"My mother was having fevers every day after the surgery, but the hospital said
there was no problem," he said. "My family and relatives on the mainland were so
worried,  they took the train to come  [to Hong Kong] immediately."

Mr Shing said his  father, Shing Kwok-chik, was still mentally and physically
exhausted and distressed by the death. "My mother's death has had a big  impact
on my father. He had to quit his job and now just needs some rest."

Mr Shing  urged the hospital to take responsibility. "For now,  legal action
seems to be the only way  to resolve this matter."

A spokeswoman for the Legal Aid Department said the Shings' application would be
processed as soon as possible.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Credit: Robert Ng; Lawmaker Andrew Cheng (right), Shing Chi-man
(centre) and his father, Shing Kwok-chik, apply for legal aid in Admiralty
yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                  September 26, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Superhospital plans on track: official

BYLINE: THE GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 283 words


The big plan to merge four English-language city hospitals into a "super-
hospital" is moving forward and should become a legal reality by the end of the
year.

"It's on track," said Elizabeth Hirst, director of communications for the McGill
University Health Centre, which aims to put the Royal Victoria, the Montreal
General, the Montreal Children's and the Montreal Neurological hospitals under
the same roof.

This month, the interim board of the MUHC ratified a legal structure for the new
entity which would streamline services, cut costs and bring the hospitals into
the 21st century as one unit.

"We hope to have (the legal status) done by the end of the year," Hirst said in
an interview yesterday. "In the meantime, we're planning and integrating."

Gaining legal status would replace the four hospital boards with one unified
board and speed up integration of hospital services and administration.

A final report on the nuts and bolts of the proposed health centre will be
submitted to the provincial government in about one year and the MUHC is setting
its sights on a new building for 2004.

Health Minister Jean Rochon signed an agreement Tuesday that will set up a
future Centre Hospitalier de l'Universite de Montreal, grouping Hotel Dieu,
Notre Dame and St. Luc hospitals.

Although the legal merger of those hospitals will take effect by the end of the
month, the sharing of resources and dovetailing of services is expected to take
several years and create a structure for 1,200 short-term beds.

The proposed English-language superhospital - to be located downtown - would
house about 1,600 beds.

Hirst said the integration process is already under way.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                           October 13, 2016 Thursday
                                  Pune Mirror

Legal aid clinic to help the mentally deficient

BYLINE: Vijay Chavan

SECTION: CIVIC

LENGTH: 392 words


Facility introduced after several reports from mental hospitals of patients'
properties being seized by their family or local goons

With an increase in cases of relatives or local goons trying to seize the
properties of mentally deficient patients, the Pune District Legal Service
Authority (PDLSA) and the sessions court have extended legal aid to fight for
their rights, for which a dedicated clinic will begin operations from Tuesday.
After a spate of such cases reported from Yerwada mental hospital and other such
facilities, the authorities constituted a legal aid clinic to help the mentally
deficient patients. A team of two advocates, paralegal volunteers and doctors
would deal with these cases and ensure proper rehabilitation of the patients.

A team of lawyers will be made available at the legal aid clinic located at
Regional Mental Hospital, Yerwada. The clinic -- to be inaugurated by principal
district judge Prithviraj Chavan -- will operate on two days in a week during
the out-patient hours of the hospital.

Talking to Pune Mirror, R V Kokare, district judge and PDLSA secretary, said,
"They should also avail the rights that every citizen of this country is
guaranteed by the Constitution. We will be in touch with the mental hospital to
get details of these cases. The friends and relatives of such patients can also
approach us for help. Fighting civil suits for them till they are finally
rehabilitated will be conducted through the legal aid clinic. To deal with such
cases, a guardian will also be appointed. Those who are victims of land grabbing
will also be helped out through this initiative. We will cross-check the mental
health of these people to make their claim legally strong."

A magistrate will personally speak with such patients to verify their mental
health and refer the case to the doctor at the legal clinic. One of the
paralegal volunteers said, "There are several issues that the mentally deficient
face. Firstly, the issue of acceptability among the family of patients that have
been cured. Secondly, rehabilitation is also problem; we will be handling both."

? Fighting civil suits for them till they are finally rehabilitated will be
conducted through the legal aid clinic. To deal with cases, a guardian will also
be appointed

- R V KOKARE, DISTRICT JUDGE AND PDLSA SECRETARY

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday

CHRISTUS ST. VINCENT MEDICAL CENTER;
CEO EARNED $616K IN 2010

BYLINE: Phaedra Haywood

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 608 words


After receiving a big raise in 2009 -- about 18 percent -- Christus St. Vincent
Regional Medical Center's chief executive officer, Alex Valdez, saw only an
incremental increase in his pay in 2010, according to tax documents recently
filed by the Santa Fe general hospital.

According to the hospital's tax return for the 2010 fiscal year, Valdez's annual
salary rose only by about $1,000 a year to $616,000 for the fiscal year that
ended in June 2011.

But he remains one of the area's best-paid executives. By comparison, new
University of New Mexico President Robert Frank will be paid $355,000, Santa Fe
County Manager Katherine Miller is paid $154,999, City Manager Robert Romero
earns $128,000, Gov. Susana Martinez earns $110,000, and her cabinet secretary
for the state Department of Health gets paid $122,500. The Santa Fe school board
has voted to pay the next superintendent of public schools a maximum of
$180,000.

In 2010, the salary for the nation's chief executive, President Barack Obama,
was $395,188.

Others on the Christus St. Vincent payroll did see sizable increases in
compensation, the most recent tax documents show. For example, then Chief
Financial Officer Paul Generale (who was later replaced by Todd Mason) received
about $409,619 in the 2010 fiscal year compared to about $376,580 the year
before.

Chief Operating Officer Bruce Tassin's compensation increased to $510,605 from
about $441,198.

Some high-ranking hospital officials saw a reduction in their pay between the
two years.

Former Chief Medical Officer Kevin Garret -- who left the organization abruptly
several months ago -- saw his compensation drop from about $430,436 to $404,084
in 2010.

Physician Samuel Chun, who was the highest paid employee at the hospital in
fiscal year 2009 with a compensation of about $956,671, saw that fall to
$764,397 in 2010.

Chun was replaced as the top earner at the hospital this year by Donald Shina,
the medical director of the hospital's cancer center, who was paid about $1.26
million in 2010, almost double the $688,635 he received in the previous year.

Hospital spokesman Arturo Delgado said Wednesday the pay of certain staffers is
determined by the number of patients they see.

In total, the private nonprofit hospital reportedly cleared about $24.2 million
after expenses in 2010, a slight increase from the 2009 number of $21.3 million.

Another item of note in the tax document is the hospital's budget for legal
fees.

According to the 2009 form, the hospital spent a mere

$3,372 on legal expenses in the fiscal year that ended in June 2010.

But the hospital reported setting aside $8.2 million for legal expenses for
fiscal year 2010, which ended in

June 2011.

An explanation on the hospital's website said the increase was "the result of an
adjustment per our annual actuarial study for medical malpractice lawsuit
reserves, and accruals for other legal costs."

Delgado said the hospital in fiscal year 2009 had placed about $1.6 million in
reserve for legal fees, but most of it wasn't used and reverted back to the
hospital's general fund.

Delgado said that the $3,372 number listed in the 2009 tax documents is an
accurate reflection of what was spent in 2009.

Delgado said the hospital placed $8 million in reserves for fiscal year 2010
after a study determined that the hospital could need it to pay medical
malpractice fees and other fees for legal matters, some of which are still
pending.

Delgado said some of that money may also end up back in the hospital's coffers
eventually.

Delgado said he couldn't comment further on the

nature of the cases still in litigation.

Contact Phaedra Haywood at 986-3068 or phaywood@sfnewmexican.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: See pdf's for exact rendition, caption, graphics and photographer info.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 The Santa Fe New Mexican
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 March 23, 2014

Legal action anticipated in St Vincent's/HSE row

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 577 words


The high-profile dispute between St Vincent's Hospital and the HSE over
consultants' work practices is expected to result in legal action.

Well-placed sources said the Dublin hospital was not backing down in advance of
the March 31 deadline the HSE had set for it to comply with public pay policy.

Instead, the hospital has written to the HSE stating it believed its doctors'
contracts entitle them to work in both St Vincent's public and private hospitals
. The hospital has told doctors it has received legal advice to this effect.

The HSE has publicly rejected the hospital's interpretation of the consultants'
contracts, although a number of hospital consultants are understood to have
received similar legal advice to the hospital.

The HSE has warned the hospital that some 60 doctors with type B contracts have
to stop working in the private hospital by March 31.

Approximately 60 hospital consultants with contracts that do not allow them to
treat private patients off-site have been working in St Vincent's Private
Hospital.

St Vincent's Healthcare Group (SVHG) believes that as the private hospital is
co-located with the public hospital and is under the same ownership, it is in a
unique position that means its consultants can work across both hospitals on the
same campus.

This issue took centre stage after it was raised by Fine Gael TD Simon Harris,
when senior managers and board members of the hospital appeared before the Dail
Public Accounts Committee (PAC).

In a previous statement issued to The Sunday Business Post, the HSE said it
became aware that type B consultants were working in the private hospital after
it carried out an audit of the implementation of the Consultant's Contract at a
sample of hospitals in 2010.

The HSE said these issues were ''raised in formal correspondence with the
hospital board.

The HSE said it informed the board that the practice ''was not in line with the
contract or with provisions of its Service Agreement with the HSE.

''In its response the Board confirmed the findings of the audit and stated that
only five consultants had been permitted to work in the Private Hospital and
only in exceptional circumstances, the HSE said.

The hospital subsequently sought a process to agree a methodology that would
allow all type B consultants to work in the private hospital.

The HSE said it held meetings, but that ''no agreement was reached that allowed
type B consultants to practise in the private hospital.

''SVHG participation in these processes serves as practical confirmation of
their understanding that existing arrangements do not permit type B consultants
to practise in the private hospital, the HSE said.

The chief executives of other hospitals have argued that St Vincent's has a
competitive advantage over other public hospitals as consultants are more
attracted to public hospitals that offer greater scope for private practice.

A number of consultants employed on type B contracts at the Mater Misericordiae
University Hospital are working in the Mater Private Hospital, which is under
separate ownership.

**The contract**

Under the terms of the 2008 hospital consultants' contract, newly appointed
consultants can get public-only contracts (type A) that prevent them from
treating and earning money from private patients, or contracts that allow them
to treat a small percentage of private patients (type B) in the public hospital
where they work. Type B consultants are not allowed to treat private patients
off-site.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday
                                  All Editions

No changes at hospital despite legal notice

BYLINE: SHARON KILEY MACK OF THE NEWS STAFF

SECTION: Pg. B5

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: MACHIAS


A legal notice concerning Down East Community Hospital that has appeared
recently in the Bangor Daily News reflects only the well-publicized changes at
the hospital over the past month and no further changes, officials said
Wednesday.

There have been no new decisions or changes concerning the hospital, officials
said Wednesday, adding that the legal notice was simply a state requirement.

The notice confirms that an original agreement between the Maine Department of
Health and Human Services and the hospital was rescinded on July 10, when the
hospital was placed in receivership.

It references the new deadline for installing corrective measures for
compliance, which is Sept. 30.

"It did have some odd wording," said Suzanne Spruce of Eastern Maine Healthcare
Systems, which took over management of the hospital after it was placed in
receivership last month.

The notice partly states: "Notice is hereby given that the provider agreement
between Down East Community Hospital, and the Secretary of the Department of
Health and Human Services ... effective July 10, 2009 has been rescinded.
Termination of this facility as a Critical Access Hospital under Medicare will
be effective midnight September 30, 2009. The Centers for Medicare & Medical
Services has determined that Down East Community Hospital has failed to maintain
compliance with Medicare requirements."

All of that information, Spruce noted, has been reported by the BDN and other
media outlets and the notice says nothing new.

"This is merely a legal announcement that the state was required to post once
the July 10 agreement was rescinded," Spruce said.

She said EMHS expects to have all corrective measures and plans in place before
the Sept. 30 deadline.

bdnpittsfield@myfairpoint.net

255-0618

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              119 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            April 19, 2014 Saturday

Texas doctors say hospital revoked their privileges over abortions

LENGTH: 716  words


Two Texas doctors who had been performing abortions for more than three decades
lost their legal ability to do so at the end of March when their new hospital
revoked their privileges.
This week, a judge temporarily reinstated their positions. But the doctors face
an April 30 court hearing to see if that temporary order will remain in place.


The abortion case, like many others in Texas at the moment, was sparked by
legislation passed last year that placed significant limits on who can perform
abortions and where.
A U.S. appeals court judge ruled March 27 that the law did not violate the U.S.
Constitution. Abortion advocates have asked the full U.S. 5th Circuit Court of
Appeals to review the decision, but the law stands in the meantime.
As a result of the restrictions, the number of abortion providers in the state
of 26 million has fallen to about 25 from nearly 50 a few years ago. Abortion
advocates expect five to 10 to be left by year's end if their legal challenges
fail.
The newest case stems from University General Hospital Dallas' decision to sever
its ties to Lamar Robinson and Jasbir Ahluwalia.
"It has come to our attention that you perform 'voluntary interruption of
pregnancies' as a regular part of your medical practice," the hospital wrote in
a letter to each doctor. "As a matter of policy, UGHD does not perform these
procedures due to the fact that obstetric procedures are not within UGHD's scope
of services and that UGHD does not have the capacity to treat complications that
may arise from voluntary interruption of pregnancies."
The decision was significant because HB2, the new abortion law, requires
abortion providers to have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital - within 30
miles of their clinic - in case a patient needs hospitalization because of
complications.
Robinson and Ahluwalia received access to the hospital this winter, but when
that privilege was revoked, they could no longer legally perform abortions.
"There is no legitimate non-discriminatory reason" for the revocation of their
privileges, attorneys for the doctors wrote in a lawsuit filed Thursday in
Dallas County Court. They argue that Texas law states that it's illegal for
hospitals to discriminate against physicians because they perform or don't
perform abortions.
The attorneys say the hospital "caved" into demands of protesters who had
threatened to picket outside the hospital if Robinson and Ahluwalia were not let
go. The hospital's revocation letters - which cited the disruption caused to its
business by talk of abortions - arrived the day before the threatened protest.

The hospital has yet to respond to the lawsuit with its own legal filing.
Hospital President Donald Sapaugh said officials would comply with the temporary
order until the hearing April 30.
"It's the policy of University General Hospital Dallas to provide high-quality
patient care and comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including
those that prohibit discrimination with respect to admitting-privileges," Spaugh
said. "The temporary restraining issued by the court was entered into without
the hospital or its counsel present in court to present its side of the case."
The lawsuit states that hospital's excuses for their termination were "inept."
The doctors' abortion patients would be unlikely to be transferred to UGHD in an
emergency because several hospitals are closer, according to the suit.
To those who say that the doctors should choose another hospital, the attorneys
said that sifting through different hospitals' eligibly criteria is
time-consuming and that in any event, hospitals have up to 170 days to respond
to an application.
The attorneys for the doctors have asked for quick action by the court, noting
that the patients caught in the middle of this are in "time-sensitive
situations."
The New York-based Center for Reproductive Rights is leading another challenge
to the admitting privileges requirement through a separate lawsuit in U.S.
District Court in Austin.
"It is the woman - not a hospital mired in political biases or politicians who
presume to know better - who should decide the best reproductive health care
choice for herself and her family," the center's Chief Executive Nancy Northup
said in a statement this week.
© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            January 17, 2014 Friday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

Hospital charges hit-&-run victims Rs 1,000 for filing police case

BYLINE: Aditya Anand

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 303 words


Two sisters, injured in a hit-andrun incident at Thane on Tuesday, have alleged
that a local hospital billed them Rs 1,000 as 'Medical Legal Charges', for a
police complaint they were made to lodge.

At 10:30 pm on Tuesday, Richa Verma, 22, and Sonia, 18, were crossing Pokhran
Road No 2 when a biker knocked them down and fell himself. While Richa, suffered
deep cuts on her head and was bleeding, Sonia was bruised on her leg. "The biker
got up and fled," said Richa.

After passersby hailed an autorickshaw, the sisters went to the nearby Bethany
Hospital, where Richa received nine stitches for the cuts on her head.

Their father Pawan Verma later told Mirror, "The hospital staff asked me to
lodge a police complaint, which I personally did at Vartak Nagar Police
Station."

According to Verma, police said they would visit the hospital to record
statements. "We waited 45 minutes, but nobody came. A friend then went to the
police station and brought a constable to the hospital. He recorded my
daughters' statements and left saying nothing could be done as the vehicle was
not seen. So, the statement was just a formality," he said.

To Verma's surprise, however, the hospital billed him Rs 1,000 as 'Medical Legal
Charges', and issued two receipts of Rs 500 each. Verma said that while he
normally would not have pursued the case, having to pay such a charge when it
was he who went to the police station is what disturbs him. "Curbing such
demands for cash is needed," he said.

Dr Lalit Kapoor, a medico-legal expert, told Mirror, "Charging a patient for a
medico-legal case is unusual. Hospitals do not normally charge under this
heading."

When Mirror contacted the hospital administration, officials sought time to
reply to queries. The billing section staff, however, said it was a policy to
levy medical legal charges.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            August 27, 2016 Saturday

Karachi faces acute shortage of lady MLOs

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 238

LENGTH: 395  words


The medico-legal department of Karachi is facing acute shortage of woman medico-
legal officers, which has put extra-burden on existing female staff, as most
families do not allow a male officer to perform the post-mortem of their
deceased female relatives. A senior medico-legal officer told PPI that the major
public sector healthcare of Karachi including Civil Hospital Karachi, Abbasi
Shaheed Hospital and Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center have been facing acute
shortage of female medico-legal officers as several post are lying vacant while
strength of lady MLOs is also not being increased with passage of time.

He informed that there should be at least four lady MLOs in every hospital but
lady doctors are reluctant to join the department due to the poor law  and
order situation of the city. He said that non-availability of women medico-legal
officers has also become a big issue as most of families do not allow a male
officer to perform the post-mortem of their deceased female relatives while the
apex court had also imposed ban on male medico-legal officer to conduct
postmortems of deceased females.

He said there were four sanctioned posts of senior women medico-legal officers
in medico-legal department and out of them one post is lying vacant while three
posts of woman medico-legal officers are lying vacant out of total five
sanctioned posts. He said due to shortage of woman MLOs the families of women
victims have to wait several hours to get the corpses of females examined in
hospitals.

He urged the authorities concerned to appoint woman MLOs through Sindh public
service commission and also increase the strength of female MLOs in Medico-Legal
Department to decrease workload on existing staff. He said only five female MLOs
are available in the Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi
and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital in three shifts. He said MLO's report containing the
cause of death, time of death, nature of death, and other details compiled in an
official form at the time of autopsy provides the basis for a court's case. When
contacted, newly appointed Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz Ahmed Khokhar, said
formal request has been sent of high ups of health department for appointment of
woman medico-legal officers on vacant posts. He said there is acute shortage of
lady MLOs in night shifts in major hospitals of Karachi.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                               N-j Final Edition

Bert Fish board pursuing lawsuit

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 513  words

DATELINE: EDGEWATER


EDGEWATER -- A West Palm Beach lawyer was chosen Thursday to recover what could
be millions in damages to the Southeast Volusia Hospital District from its
former lawyer's faulty legal advice that resulted in a failed hospital merger --
and legal bills that have already topped $1 million.

In a 4-2 vote, hospital district board members picked L. Louis Mrachek of the
firm Page Mrachek Trial Lawyers over a Jacksonville firm and four Volusia County
firms.

Mrachek, whose experience in legal malpractice was cited in the decision, was
chosen after a failed motion to give the work to Ted Doran, the Volusia County
School Board's attorney and former Ponce Inlet mayor. "I was very impressed with
his presentation," said the Rev. John Marsh, an Edgewater hospital district
board member who made the motion to hire Mrachek.

The Southeast Volusia Hospital District's legal woes started after it merged the
hospital it oversees, public Bert Fish Medical Center, with nonprofit Adventist
Health System last May 27.

The Bert Fish Foundation, the philanthropic organization that originally built
the hospital and gave it to the district, sued shortly after to void the sale
because the lease-sale agreement was reached during meetings illegally closed to
the public.

In a five-day trial in circuit court in February, the hospital district's
longtime lawyer Jim Heekin admitted on the stand it was his advice to close
those merger meetings and that the district could have a malpractice claim
against him because of that advice.

Circuit Judge Richard Graham voided the sale on Feb. 24 and ordered a plan to
return Bert Fish back to its public ownership. The target date is June 30.

Attorney Jon Kaney, representing the Bert Fish Foundation, said he was glad to
hear of the board's choice Thursday.

I think that Mrachek is well qualified I think that's a good choice," Kaney
said. "The local resumes didn't show the kind of background experience that the
Terrell firm (in Jacksonville) and the Mrachek firm showed."

The district, overseen by a governor-appointed board, levies taxes on property
owners in Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of Port Orange to
support indigent health care at the New Smyrna Beach hospital. But legal bills,
already at $1.5 million, threaten the district's ability to pay for that care.

And that's before the district pays its portion of the legal fees that Judge
Graham is expected to award the Bert Fish Foundation.

The district also heard from its consultant Thursday that the hospital's letter
of credit is not in immediate jeopardy as had been feared. Bank of America holds
$12 million in hospital debt. Hospital officials feared the bank would call in
the debt and sought the merger, in part, because Adventist Health would
guarantee the debt.

But Michael Bowers, senior vice president of the Community Hospital Corporation,
which is overseeing the return of Bert Fish from Adventist, said Bank of America
recently offered more favorable terms -- and other banks were interested in
providing a letter of credit, too.

It's very positive news," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              123 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             Corporate Legal Times

                                  March, 1995

What the Doctor Ordered: Health Care Mergers;
In-House Departments, General Counsel Race to Keep Up With Consolidation and
Growth

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2370 words

BY DICK DAHL

IT WASN'T that many years ago that Detroit hospital attorney Robert A. Mitchell
was still likening his primary function to that of traffic control. Hospitals,
like other purveyors of medical care, were almost a cottage industry, only the
biggest had in-house legal capabilities, and those lawyers' primary task was to
funnel legal work to appropriate law firms.

Mitchell joined Henry Ford Hospital to form a then-sizeable, two-lawyer staff 19
years ago. Next year, Mitchell plans to retire from his position as system vice
president, legal and insurance, and general counsel at the hospital's
descendant, the Henry Ford Health System, an entity that has grown to include
four hospitals, 25 clinics, a group practice of 900 doctors and its own HMO with
425,000 subscribers.

How has his job changed?

"Back then, hospital attorneys were primarily conduits," he says. "Now, we're no
longer a conduit. We handle 80 to 85 percent of our work inside.

"We're a system now, more than a hospital. We own nursing homes, pharmacies. We
have our own laundry. We even have a golf course!"

The golf course was a gift to the health system, and it includes adjoining
residential property, which means that besides all the other areas in which
Mitchell's eight-lawyer staff conduct their business, they have a real-estate
function now, too.

Clearly, health care's days as a cottage industry are over. Everywhere across
the United States, the dance is the same: Hospitals, doctors, insurers,
pharmaceutical companies and HMOs are courting one another and forming large and
ever larger "integrated delivery systems" for purposes of cutting costs and
achieving efficiencies designed to provide themselves a competitive edge in the
frenzied New World Order of health care.

In parallel fashion, in-house legal departments might be declining in number,
but they're growing in size and sophistication.

"The type and variety of legal issues facing the health care industry and the
delivery systems cover an incredible breadth," says Douglas J. Hammer, vice
president and general counsel for Intermountain Health Care Inc. of Salt Lake
City. Hammer also is president of the Chicago-based American Academy of Hospital
Attorneys and is chair of its In-House Committee.

His own employer, IHC, started as a single hospital, but today is a $1.2-billion
corporation which operates 24 hospitals in three states, owns its own insurance
arm, employs some 200 doctors, and operates a variety of managed care programs
covering 500,000 members, the largest such system in Utah.

His legal department has expanded to six lawyers and one government-relations
specialist. Not only does Hammer's office maintain a lobbying presence in Salt
Lake City; they also retain a law firm in Washington, D.C.

When he came to IHC in 1977, Hammer says, it was only a hospital company and the
legal department's tasks were neatly segmented into such areas as patient care
and professional liability. The department's work expanded greatly in 1984 when
IHC added its insurance arm, Intermountain Community Health Plan, and has
continually grown into new areas of law along with its expansion. Currently, for
instance, Hammer says that his office, like others in the health care industry,
is preparing for an increase in "excluded provider" claims from physicians or
hospitals who feel they've been unjustly left out of a system and file antitrust
suits.

"We've already seen a number of those claims around the country," he says, "and
we're going to continue to see a steady diet of them."

Antitrust Safety Zones

As the health care industry continues to consolidate into fewer large players,
federal and state antitrust regulations become of greater concern to in-house
lawyers.

"When I first got involved in health care, you just didn't hear of it," says
Nancy A. Wynstra, who joined the legal department at Allegheny General Hospital
in Pittsburgh 12 years ago. "But now, with the wave of joint ventures and
mergers and acquisitions in the last three or four years, it has become a much
bigger issue in health care. And it will continue. I think everyone's aware that
there are some things they can't do because of antitrust concerns.

In September 1993, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice
took the unusual step of issuing enforcement policy statements expressly related
to the health care industry and how those agencies would henceforth be enforcing
antitrust laws.

"To my knowledge," says Kevin E. Grady, an antitrust lawyer with Alston & Bird
in Atlanta, "these are the only policy statements that have been issued for a
particular industry."

Then, last September, the two agencies issued additional statements designed to
clarify and expand their health care antitrust enforcement policies. Most of the
policy statements establish "antitrust safety zones" which describe the specific
circumstances under which federal regulators will not challenge collaborators'
activities. For example, the two agencies state that they will not bring
antitrust action in the following instances:

*   Hospital mergers where one hospital has fewer than 100 beds, fewer than 40
patients a day and is more than five years old.

*   Joint ventures among hospitals to purchase expensive health care equipment
when they involve only the number of hospitals necessary to support the
equipment.

*   Exclusive physician network joint ventures -- those that restrict the
ability of a doctor to join another venture or to contract individually with
health insurance plans -- as long as the physicians share "substantial"
financial risk and the venture comprises 20 percent or fewer of the physicians
in each specialty in a geographic market.

Grady says that federal regulators have been rather lenient in their reaction to
two recent and growing trends: purchasing alliances in which a large delivery
system arranges to buy products -- such as pharmaceuticals -- from a provider in
exchange for reduced costs and heightened merger activity by physician groups.

And like Hammer, Grady predicts an increase in excluded provider claims by
people and institutions who are left out when the alliances, systems and
networks are formed.

"The groups that are forming early and first have a leg up," he says.

Furthermore, this belief is shared by many and is causing some unaffiliated
health care providers to panic, according to Grady.

"People are hustling, but they're doing it from a defensive standpoint, instead
of a proactive one. You don't just want to jump on the bandwagon because
everyone's doing it. It's important that you not just react, but have a game
plan for why you're doing it."

The process of consolidation holds a pivotal role for in-house legal
departments. In Pittsburgh, the Allegheny General Hospital has grown from a
single institution to the Allegheny Health, Education and Research Foundation
(aherf), a parent corporation for a health care system with 2,000 beds, 18,000
employees, and a $1.5-billion annual budget, or more than three times the size
of the hospital from which it originated. Wynstra, now an executive vice
president and general counsel for aherf, says that her department performs
extensive research and analysis on any prospective addition to the system.

"When we go in to evaluate bringing another entity into the system, we look at
the most efficient way of doing it," she says. "A lot of times there are layoffs
and people aren't happy about it, and oftentimes, unhappy people sue."

And then, of course, there is the matter of merging the legal departments
themselves. Often, small hospitals have no in-house department, but when there
is a genuine office of the general counsel, the first step in examining it, she
says, is conducting a comprehensive due diligence process.

"Then we look at the size of the department, the backgrounds of the lawyers and
how they might fit in. Someone in the office has to have the title of general
counsel. Often, other general counsel are not very keen on coming into a
position where they won't be the top person in charge of the legal department.
Here, our philosophy is that there is one general counsel, and that general
counsel is me."

Wynstra came to Allegheny General to create the legal department in 1983. By
1986, the staff had grown to four lawyers. Today, it numbers 14: seven,
including Wynstra, in Pittsburgh and seven in Philadelphia.

Some matters are handled systemwide, but each office also maintains its own
separate geographic responsibilities, Wynstra says. They usually ship out
litigation as well as the more complicated antitrust cases. But Wynstra tries to
keep as much of the antitrust work in-house as possible.

Generally, says Wynstra, any health care provider is safe if it comprises less
than one-third of a geographic market. Allegheny hasn't experienced any
significant antitrust problems, she says.

M&A The Likes Of Venture Capitalists

But there are larger health care entities, giants like Columbia/HCA Healthcare
Corp., the world's largest hospital chain, that have felt the antitrust sting.

Stephen T. Braun, senior vice president and general counsel for Columbia/HCA,
says that his company is planning to divest itself of five hospitals and one
surgery center. At this time, the company numbers some 200 hospitals and 125
outpatient facilities, most of them surgery centers. And with the merger of
Nashville-based HealthTrust Inc. with Columbia/HCA in a stock-swap transaction
to be effective by the end of the first quarter, the numbers will rise to about
310 hospitals and 60,000 licensed beds in 37 states and two foreign countries.
The company has stated that this colossal consolidation will result in savings
of $125 million.

Even prior to the HealthTrust purchase, Columbia/HCA was estimated to be
operating more than half of the private hospital beds in the United States. But
to place that fact into a more limited perspective, only 14 percent of the
hospital beds in the country are in private, tax-paying institutions. The others
are in non-profit hospitals.

Perhaps equally colossal is the growth of the company's legal department. Braun
came to Columbia/HCA from private practice in health care mergers and
acquisitions for Doherty, Rumble & Butler, Minneapolis, to open the legal office
in October 1991. Currently, his staff includes 22 lawyers and it plans to expand
again upon moving to a new office in Nashville this spring.

Braun divides his group into three areas: litigation and litigation management;
development, which focuses on acquisitions and joint ventures and is considering
switching its role to one more of oversight; and operations.

The numbers that roll off Braun's tongue are daunting.

"At any one time, we have at least 25 transactions under way, and by that I mean
legitimate transactions that have a chance of closing. Actually, that's very
conservative. It's more like 50," he says.

The legal work involving acquisitions "typically is handled by myself and a
couple of other lawyers. If it's over $1 billion, we'll send it out. But if it's
$1 billion or less, we're inclined to do it internally."

When Columbia/HCA makes its intentions known about moving into an area, a
typical reaction of existing providers is to form defensive alliances, as four
Chicago-area Catholic hospitals did in late 1994. Columbia/HCA secured three
letters of intent from Chicago-area hospitals in 1994, LaGrange Community
Hospital, Osteopathic Hospital and Olympia Fields Osteopathic Hospital and
Medical Center. Columbia/HCA President Richard Scott announced that his company
intended to buy more hospitals in the area in coming years.

Such defensive alliances also are occurring in many parts of Florida, where
Columbia/HCA already owns 25 percent of the state's hospitals.

In other parts of the country, doctors themselves are getting into the
consolidation act in a proactive way. Traditionally, doctors have been
unorganized, but "economics are causing physicians to get together and form
groups," says John M. Wray, vice president and general counsel for Mullikin
Medical Centers, based in Long Beach, Calif. A for-profit group of more than 300
doctors, Mullikin subcontracts with HMOs to provide medical care for set prices.

Wray says that in the two years since he joined Mullikin, the shift in the scope
of his department, now numbering two other lawyers, has been obvious. There's
been plenty of merger and acquisition work as the system has grown to encompass
50 clinics and increased contract work with HMOs.


Questionable Future

As delivery systems of all types grow ever larger, health care lawyers say, the
emphasis on cost-reducing standardization will probably bring new kinds of
lawsuits for in-house lawyers.

"You're going to see more medical malpractice litigation by participants in a
plan because they're denied service on the basis that it's too expensive," says
Grady. "That is, that the denial is based on financial needs as opposed to the
patient's interests."

In-house lawyers are facing the need now to spell out what their systems'
standard procedures will be for specific maladies.

"Increasingly in health care, we're trying to come up with protocols that,
unless there's a reason for an exception, you ought to treat a patient this
way," says Gail P. Heagen, general counsel for Sentara Health System, a Norfolk,
Va., system that includes four hospitals, two HMOs, an insurance company and
several nursing homes.

aherf's Wynstra says that quality review and clinical practice guidelines are
growing in importance for all medical delivery systems and their in-house legal
staffs now that the profit motive of performing that extra test is evaporating.
"I think we'll see some very interesting litigation focusing on the use of
clinical practice guidelines," she says.

Other in-house lawyers take a different view, however. Wray, of the doctor-owned
Mullikin system, maintains that medical malpractice lawsuits will not increase
under the set-fee systems.

"There's a greater emphasis on prevention now," he says. "If anything, I think,
there should be a tendency to reduce them."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo, "When we go in to evaluate bringing another entity into the
system, we look at the most efficient way of doing it," says Nancy A. Wynstra,
executive vice president and general counsel of Allegheny Health, Education and
Research Foundation, Pittsburgh. "A lot of times there are layoffs and people
aren't happy about it, and oftentimes, unhappy people sue."; Photo By john
heller

                Copyright 1995 Corporate Legal Times Corporation


                              124 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday
                               Australian Edition

Hospital builders have minister in their sights

BYLINE: MICHAEL OWEN

SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 486  words


Builders of the $2.3 billion new Royal Adelaide Hospital have launched legal
action in the Federa-l Court over the troubled project, just weeks before its
scheduled opening.

The legal claim - foreshadowed by The Australian in May - has been lodged in NSW
by Hansen- Yuncken and CPB Contractors- (formerly Leighton Contractors), which
were jointly involved in the construction of the hospital as part of a larger
consortium.

Their claim is against consortium Celsus (formerly SA Health Partnerships), the
South Australian government, Health Minister Jack Snelling and Donald Cant Watts
Corke, an independ-ent certifier engaged to determine blame for alleged faults
in the hospital's construction that has delayed its completion and opening. The
hospital, due to open on September 5, is 17 months overdue and $640 million over
budget.

SA Health Partnerships had previously launched legal action against the
Weatherill government after it rejected a so-called cure plan to fix alleged
defects in the build, but this was settled out of court.

Yesterday, Mr Snelling told parliament the government "remains- entirely
confident in its legal position and the protections afforded to it by the
contract" over the $180m legal claim.

"It is worth noting that, to date, over 20 extensions of time have been
submitted by the builder," he said. "This is, I think it would be fair to say,
the last gasp by the builder, and we are very, very -confident with our legal
position. It is important to note in the taking of action against anyone who is
-involved in the project, including the consortium Celsus (who were formerly
known as SAHP), and indeed the independent certifier whose job it was to provide
advice to the government, that the hospital met all the contract-ual
-requirements." Mr Snelling said the government became aware of the "pretty
speculative legal action" late last week and it was "not terribly -surprising".

"The builder has taken a signif-icant hit through liquidated damages because of
the delay in the delivery of the new RAH and that has flowed through to the
state taxpayers in terms of -roughly $400m in service payments that have not
been paid to Celsus, so that is the total amount off the price," he said.

The opposition said it believed a flawed electronic records system- being rolled
out across South Australia's public hospitals was part of the Federal Court case
against the government.

"Jack Snelling needs to be upfron-t with South Australians about the nature of
the legal disput-e and the potential financial impact upon taxpayers,"
oppositi-on health spokesman Stephen Wade said.

"The reason why the Labor government entered a public--private partnership for
the RAH was to protect taxpayers from cost blowouts, but all we seem to have
achieved is a legal quagmire." Mr Snelling said that the legal -action would not
affect the hospital's opening date.Hansen Yuncken and Celsus declined to
comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday
                              Australian2 Edition

Hospital builders have minister in their sights

BYLINE: MICHAEL OWEN

SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 486  words


Builders of the $2.3 billion new Royal Adelaide Hospital have launched legal
action in the Federa-l Court over the troubled project, just weeks before its
scheduled opening.

The legal claim - foreshadowed by The Australian in May - has been lodged in NSW
by Hansen- Yuncken and CPB Contractors- (formerly Leighton Contractors), which
were jointly involved in the construction of the hospital as part of a larger
consortium.

Their claim is against consortium Celsus (formerly SA Health Partnerships), the
South Australian government, Health Minister Jack Snelling and Donald Cant Watts
Corke, an independ-ent certifier engaged to determine blame for alleged faults
in the hospital's construction that has delayed its completion and opening. The
hospital, due to open on September 5, is 17 months overdue and $640 million over
budget.

SA Health Partnerships had previously launched legal action against the
Weatherill government after it rejected a so-called cure plan to fix alleged
defects in the build, but this was settled out of court.

Yesterday, Mr Snelling told parliament the government "remains- entirely
confident in its legal position and the protections afforded to it by the
contract" over the $180m legal claim.

"It is worth noting that, to date, over 20 extensions of time have been
submitted by the builder," he said. "This is, I think it would be fair to say,
the last gasp by the builder, and we are very, very -confident with our legal
position. It is important to note in the taking of action against anyone who is
-involved in the project, including the consortium Celsus (who were formerly
known as SAHP), and indeed the independent certifier whose job it was to provide
advice to the government, that the hospital met all the contract-ual
-requirements." Mr Snelling said the government became aware of the "pretty
speculative legal action" late last week and it was "not terribly -surprising".

"The builder has taken a signif-icant hit through liquidated damages because of
the delay in the delivery of the new RAH and that has flowed through to the
state taxpayers in terms of -roughly $400m in service payments that have not
been paid to Celsus, so that is the total amount off the price," he said.

The opposition said it believed a flawed electronic records system- being rolled
out across South Australia's public hospitals was part of the Federal Court case
against the government.

"Jack Snelling needs to be upfron-t with South Australians about the nature of
the legal disput-e and the potential financial impact upon taxpayers,"
oppositi-on health spokesman Stephen Wade said.

"The reason why the Labor government entered a public--private partnership for
the RAH was to protect taxpayers from cost blowouts, but all we seem to have
achieved is a legal quagmire." Mr Snelling said that the legal -action would not
affect the hospital's opening date.Hansen Yuncken and Celsus declined to
comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            August 16, 2001, Friday

WE'LL FIGHT ON FOR OUR FATHER;
 HOSPITAL'S BID TO BLOCK LEGAL AID

BYLINE: Liz Hull

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 356 words


A LIVERPOOL hospital has threatened to apply for legal aid to be withdrawn from
a family claiming compensation following the death of their father.

Today the family branded hospital bosses "callous" for trying to force them to
drop the case.

John Hall, 74, of Breck Road, Everton, was admitted to the Royal University
hospital in July 1997. It took doctors 19 days to diagnose that bones at the top
of his neck were pressing on his spinal cord, paralysing him from the neck down.

By then it was too late to operate because Mr Hall had contracted septicemia and
pneumonia and he died two days later.

Soon after Mr Hall's death his daughters, Evelyn Loftus and Patricia Bell,
decided to sue the hospital for negligence.

Although they accept their father may not have survived surgery if an earlier
diagnosis had been made, the sisters claim their father went through
excruciating pain and suffering because of the delay.

They also claim the former railwayman was moved into a storeroom overnight
because his cries of pain were keeping other patients awake.

The sisters want the hospital to admit responsibility and are seeking pounds
2,500 compensation.

Evelyn, 54, of Sceptre Road, Croxteth, said: "I'm absolutely disgusted. This
matter is not about money, it is about the hospital taking responsibility for
the pain and suffering my father endured at the hands of the medical and nursing
staff."

Solicitor Helen Barry, who is representing the family, said: "The hospital are
not prepared to make any settlement out of court but because the costs of the
case would exceed the amount of damages, the Legal Aid Board could decide to
discharge it.

"This is a real shame because our evidence shows that Mr Hall went through
excruciating pain and discomfort."

In a letter to Ms Barry, hospital solicitors call on the family to drop the
case.

It states: "If the claim is not discontinued, we have invited our clients to
give us instructions in relation to making representations to the Legal Aid
Board and an appropriate application to the court to prevent this matter
drifting still further."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK: Evelyn Loftus with the letter from hospital solicitors; Picture:
RICHARD WILLIAMS

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd


                              127 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Path clear to buildnew pounds 451m Royal hospital

BYLINE: Liza Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 650 words


ROYAL Liverpool hospital bosses expressed their "delight" last night, after a
legal challenge threatening the pounds 451m rebuild project was withdrawn.

They confirmed the path was now clear for the new hospital to be built.

Campaign group Keep Our NHS Public (KONP) was due to drag Royal Hospital bosses
and the Department of Health into the High Court later this week.

But the group has now dropped the case.

KONP were against the use of PFI cash for the build, which members said would
leave the region with crippling debts that could impact on future health
services.

Tony Bell, chief executive at the Royal, said: "We are absolutely delighted to
hear that this legal challenge is now over.

"We are sure that the people of Merseyside, who have given so much support to
the new Royal, will be pleased to hear this news.

"We can now press ahead with the exciting task of working with our three bidders
to create a world-class hospital for the people of this city.

"We can also continue with our plans for the Liverpool BioCampus, which will
attract significant investment and development opportunities for the whole
city."

The hospital will narrow the list of bidders set to build the hospital down to
two in the coming months.

WHAT Visit our www.post.co.your say Liverpool City Council leader Joe Anderson
said: "It is fantastic news. Now we can get on with building a hospital that is
fit for purpose, creating jobs and apprenticeships."

At the end of January, leading campaigner Sam Semoff was told legal aid for his
case was being withdrawn by the Legal Services Commission.

As a result, he has withdrawn the action.

The High Court hearing, scheduled for Friday, was itself an appeal after Semoff
's initial application for a Judicial Review was thrown out. And it is the
second time he has applied for a Judicial Review, in a saga that has run for two
years.

The total legal bill for the challenges is estimated to be well into six
figures. Health chiefs also predict each month the hospital has been delayed
will add pounds 1m to its final bill.

KONP claimed the PFI scheme would cost at least pounds 1.24bn over 34 years,
while public finance would cost pounds 730m.

online you think? But health chiefs insisted these figures were not accurate.A
website at liverpooldaily uk and have statement from KONP said: "Sam Semoff has
principles but very little money. "Very reluctantly, on legal advice, he has
withdrawn his case.

"The campaign group, Keep Our NHS Public Merseyside, congratulates Sam on his
magnificent battle.

"Paying for PFI will be top priority, coming before clinical need.

"Money will flow from the NHS to banks and private investors.

"The excess debt will force cuts in NHS services across Merseyside for the next
generation, pushing patients towards private healthcare. That will be the legacy
of Trust directors, the Dept of Health, and all those who took their side.

"The public deserve better. Our voices must be heard. It''s our NHS."

Mr Semoff said: Now that the scheme's current costs are known, I call on Trust
directors to formally request the Government to allow public finance for
Liverpool's new hospital.

Liverpool Riverside Labour MP Louise Ellman also welcomed the dropping of the
court action last night, saying it was a great day for the people of Liverpool,
who urgently needed a new Royal.

She added: I''m delighted with this news. This is the right decision and means
we can now go ahead with our new top-class hospital, together with the Bio
Campus development.

These projects will bring thousands of much-needed jobs at a time of rising
unemployment. It will also mean excellent health facilities for our people." The
hospital estimates the court process has put the build back by around six
months.

Building work is now expected to start in November, 2012, with a finished
hospital expected in late 2016.

¦ OPINION: Page 15

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Campaigner Sam Semoff - has dropped his legal case over the new Royal
Picture: JASON ROBERTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              May 20, 2011 Friday
                               N-j Final Edition

Fish financing secured, but legal bills mounting

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 515  words

DATELINE: EDGEWATER


EDGEWATER -- The credit collapse that had been feared as Bert Fish Medical
Center unwound from Adventist Health System was averted with a new financing
agreement approved Thursday.

But the Southeast Volusia Hospital District board also heard Thursday that the
merger's undoing is predicted to cost the tax- supported hospital district
nearly $1 million in legal and consulting costs in the last six months of this
fiscal year.

That puts this year's tab for the failed merger's legal and administrative costs
at $2.5 million.

The board's attorney -- whose firm has billed $528,000 since the fiscal year
began -- said she expects there will be some months when which she won't be
working on district business full time with an assistant, costing the district
$85,000 a month, as has been the case in recent months.

There will be a point in time when the legal fees will be substantially
decreased," said Kelly Sullivan, an attorney with Dean Mead of Orlando.

The New Smyrna Beach hospital is undergoing a court-ordered dissolution of its
partnership with nonprofit Adventist Health because the merger agreement was the
result of talks illegally closed to the public in violation of the state
Sunshine Law. Circuit Judge Richard Graham voided the merger Feb. 24 and ordered
a plan to return Bert Fish back to its public ownership. The target date is June
30.

The district levies taxes on property owners in Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak
Hill and a portion of Port Orange to support indigent health care at the
hospital. Board members are appointed by the governor.

An uncertain commitment from Bank of America, which holds the hospital's letter
of credit, was part of the reason that board members struck the deal with
Adventist finalized last July 1. And the five-day trial into whether the
partnership should continue included testimony about the disastarous effects
that undoing the partnership would have on the 122-bed hospital's financing.

Board members feared the bank would ask the hospital to come up with the $14.5
million in outstanding debt. Such a call-in would drain the hospital's cash
reserves.

But Al Allred, the hospital's chief financial officer, said the terms of the new
agreement by which Bank of America will guarantee the hospital's debt for the
next nine months will be to the hospital's advantage. The agreement calls for
the hospital to put $10.8 million in a restricted fund to guarantee Bank of
America's commitment. That will leave the hospital with $11 million in cash
reserves available should an emergency occur.

Allred said the agreement actually lowers the cost of the hospital's debt.

It's a win-win," Allred said.

District board members are pressing on with a legal malpractice claim against
the lawyer that advised them to close the merger talks to the public. They hope
to recover the legal and administrative costs that resulted from his advice. But
so far, the financial report presented Thursday shows the unexpected costs will
put the district $1.6 million behind in its payments for indigent care rendered
at the hospital before theof the fiscal year, Oct. 1.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              129 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                              May 1, 2004 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                  City Edition

California organization fights for the uninsured

BYLINE: SARAH SKIDMORE, The Times-Union

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 549 words


A minority advocacy group has launched a legal aid program in Florida to help
uninsured patients challenge their hospital bills, fight collectors or defend
themselves in lawsuits over medical bills.

Consejo de Latinos Unidos (Counsel of United Latinos), a Los Angeles-based
organization, said it will provide legal aid, regardless of race, to patients
who are uninsured but do not qualify for charity care from hospitals.

"A lot of people do not know how to defend themselves," said Consejo leader K.B.
Forbes. "The uninsured, they have no one helping them, until today."

Consejo says hospitals are "price-gouging" patients by charging them several
times more than rates negotiated by insurance companies. Lawyers for the group
said they have clients whose hospitals would not create payment plans and others
who are being harassed by creditors.

The Florida Hospital Association said uninsured patients are among the few who
pay full price. Their bills are higher because hospitals have a set price for
services but public or private insurance plans get discounted rates. Rich
Rasmussen, spokesman for FHA, said the uninsured are a small but difficult group
to collect from; hospitals get paid about 6 cents on the dollar for treating
uninsured patients. He said no illegal or abusive tactics are being used.

Consejo has budgeted $250,000 for the legal aid program. It has eight cases
already and said it has 400 potential cases statewide.

Consejo said it is supported almost entirely by non-profit organizations and
foundations but will not reveal its donor list out of fear of retribution.
Forbes said it regularly receives anonymous threats. Critics are leery.

"It's clear the main interest that organization has is headlines and lawsuits,"
said Jeff Prescott, spokesman for HCA, the Health Care Company, which is a large
national hospital chain that has been the target of many of Consejo's projects.

FHA and HCA say Forbes' links are too close and his arguments too similar to the
insurance industry for him to be a true consumer advocate.

Forbes is a former employee of Medical Savings Co. insurance company in
Oklahoma. Lee Memorial filed a lawsuit against Forbes' former employer when it
refused to pay hospital charges higher than those offered to large health care
companies, according to a report published by Naples Daily News.

"[Medical Savings] have provided us with intellectual help," Forbes said. "I
rely on friends to help me out."

Forbes admits his group has received information, such as insurance contracts,
from hospitals, former actuaries and other groups to help Consejo gather data
for its debate.

Forbes denies a conflict of interest and says FHA is focusing on his past as "an
attempt to deflect the attention away from their own egregious behavior."

Forbes said the larger goal of his group is to abolish the difference in costs
between the insured and uninsured. The group pressured Tenet Healthcare, a large
national hospital chain, into establishing discounts for uninsured patients.

Part of the legal aid program would be to help educate patients about their
rights and reasonable billing rates.

sarah.skidmore@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4268

LEGAL AID

Patients who are interested in seeking Consejo's legal aid can call
1-800-474-7576 or visit Jacksonville.com, keyword: legal aid.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2006



CORRECTION: The Times-Union takes mistakes seriously. We will correct all
mistakes of fact made in our news stories as soon as possible. We also publish
appropriate clarifications.

-- A story about a lawsuit over Tallahassee's affordable housing policy ran on
Page B-4 Wednesday. Because of an editor's error, a headline on Page D-1
Thursday incorrectly said the story was inside that day's Business section.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Florida Times-Union


                              130 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 5, 2012

Hospitals try new tack: Refer injured patients to attorneys

BYLINE: By Alicia Gallegos, amednews staff. Posted March 5, 2012.

SECTION: PROFESSION Vol. 55 No. 10

LENGTH: 1246 words



HIGHLIGHT: Maryland hospitals that offer such referrals say patients save time
and expense. Skeptics caution about potential conflicts of interest and
physicians facing added liability risk.


MedStar Health, one of the largest health care systems in Maryland, prides
itself on being proactive when faced with accusations of medical negligence.

MedStar says it discusses with patients what happened during treatment, works
toward a resolution and, when appropriate, proposes a settlement. But if
patients decline to settle, the health system takes an unlikely next step: It
offers them the name and number of a lawyer.

Providing such referrals can resolve cases more quickly and keep complaints from
turning into long legal nightmares, MedStar officials say. The strategy also
saves health professionals and patients legal expenses. The vetted attorneys
agree to take patients' cases at a reduced rate.

"If the injury and the financial consequences of that injury are significant, we
are much more comfortable knowing that the patient and their family have
received independent outside legal counsel to help them make their decisions
regarding resolution," MedStar said in a statement. "To this end, we have
identified a small number of very seasoned, highly respected lawyers in the
community who have impeccable reputations for being fair and honest."

Other health systems in Maryland also are referring patients to lawyers after a
patient is injured. MedStar Health, LifeBridge Health and the University of
Maryland Medical System -- which collectively run about two dozen hospitals --
have used the strategy. The idea is drawing praise and skepticism as a way to
deal with potential medical liability.

Hospitals say the practice is good for patients, who often are unfamiliar with
the legal system and want compensation for their injuries as soon as possible.
But legal experts question whether patients are being misled by hospitals. They
also wonder if attorneys on the list may have conflicts of interest and if
doctors caught in the middle may end up paying a hefty legal cost.

"As a patient, why would you want that referral?" asked Karen M. McGovern, a
Colorado medical liability defense attorney and a nurse for more than 20 years.
"There's a reason these attorneys are being referred by the hospital. What I
suspect is that this is an attorney who doesn't push the cases to trial and
settles for lower amounts. Is that attorney going to make up the difference by
going after the doctor?"

A quick resolution?

MedStar has kept a list of attorney referrals for patients since 2005, said Jean
M. Hitchcock, a MedStar spokeswoman. The health system developed the list by
contacting about 25 attorneys in the community that the hospital had worked with
or knew to be highly respected.

The system does not keep track of how often the list is used. Hitchcock said
patients accept the hospitals' attorney recommendations "infrequently."

LifeBridge Health, a multihospital health system in Baltimore, does not keep a
formal directory like MedStar. Instead, it occasionally calls attorneys for
plaintiffs during legal negotiations with patients and families, said Teri
Kaufman Leonovich, associate general counsel for LifeBridge Health.

"A lot of times, in discussions with patients, they start asking you [for legal
advice] as if you're a friend or colleague," Leonovich said. "You get into an
ethical bind. Frankly, I've had family members or patients where I've said, 'I
can't give you legal advice,' and their response has been, 'And I can't afford
an attorney.' "

In such instances, Leonovich asks lawyers if they will represent the patient at
a lower fee.

"Plaintiffs' attorneys have been very responsive and happy and willing to work
with families," she said. "We have the same goal in trying to do right by
people. The only thing we need to really do is come to an agreement as to what
fair compensation is."

The attorney-referral idea could save legal costs for patients, hospitals and
health professionals, said S. Allan Adelman, a Maryland attorney and past
president of the American Health Lawyers Assn. But the move is risky, he added.
For instance, a patient could sue the lawyer after a resolution is reached,
alleging that the attorney was beholden to the hospital and did not fairly
represent the patient's interests.

"The patient could come back and file a claim against the attorney, saying he
sold them down the river because of a conflict of interest," Adelman said.

Susan A. Dennehy, a New York plaintiff attorney, questions whether patients
would be served by accepting a hospital's attorney referral. "The concern would
be if the patient didn't fully understand the extent of their injuries," she
said. "Attorneys are not allowed to solicit clients, and it seems as if the
hospital is kind of working with the plaintiffs' attorney to resolve the case in
a way that's unorthodox."

The strategy is a reasonable approach to resolving medical liability claims,
said Matthew Rice, MD, a Seattle emergency physician and attorney. He said
injured patients often turn to the legal system when they feel ignored by
medical staff. The attorney-referral strategy focuses on walking patients
through the situation and, if necessary, connecting them with the legal guidance
they deserve, he said.

"I can understand the patient or patient's family being reluctant" to accept the
help, Dr. Rice said. "A [sentinel] event suggests there's going to be difficult
feelings and frustration. By the same token, often patients are very trustful of
medicine and hospitals. They're looking for answers."

He knows that many doctors fear litigation. The majority of physicians probably
would be skeptical of an employer recommending an attorney to a patient who is
accusing the doctor of negligence. But doctors should consider the bigger
picture, he said.

"If you look at the way the medical malpractice system has traditionally worked,
it's a very adversarial approach," Dr. Rice said. "We need to be more creative
and constructive in how we resolve these disputes and find better ways of
getting these issues resolved, so we can go back to focusing on how to provide
health care to the many people who need it."

Idea could hurt doctors

McGovern, the Colorado defense attorney, worries that hospital-based doctors are
at risk for costlier lawsuits if patients accept the hospitals' attorney
referrals.

"If [an attorney] is taking the case at a reduced fee, then the attorney is
going to be looking to recoup the money that he could have made and looking to
get his clients the money he thinks they deserve," she said. "I think he would
go after the doctor. You go after the deepest pockets."

Maryland attorney Brian Nash doesn't see anything wrong with the health systems'
legal approach. He has represented plaintiffs and doctors in medical liability
cases and has been referred through MedStar's lawyer list.

"The lawyers may make less, as does the cottage industry associated with
litigation, but it truly is a loss that is well worth the price to get these
matters resolved fairly, economically and timely," Nash said in an email. "It is
perhaps a form of tort reform that works for not only the health care industry
but, more importantly, for the injured patients and families."

The Maryland State Medical Assn. does not see the attorney-referral idea as a
practical tort reform solution, said Gene M. Ransom, CEO of the medical
association.

"We have not had good experiences with trial attorneys, and we believe many of
the cases that are brought are questionable at best," Ransom said. "We're not
going to work with lawyers until they want to work on real reform. I'm not
holding my breath."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           January 27, 1999 Wednesday

Olivieri reinstated in Sick Kids truce  Hospitals pays her $150,000 legal bill,
withdraws all complaints

BYLINE: KRISTA FOSS and PAUL TAYLOR The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: Toronto


Dr. Nancy Olivieri has her job back today -- and even better, some vindication.

The Hospital for Sick Children and the University of Toronto have signed a deal
with Dr. Olivieri, who has been at the heart of a bitter drug-research
controversy for more than two years, that pays her legal fees and withdraws any
complaints against her.

The deal also lets her walk across the street to Toronto Hospital, taking with
her responsibility for a world-renowned blood-disorders program and her
leading-edge research.

The agreement was announced only 19 days after the Hospital for Sick Children
announced that it was removing Dr. Olivieri as head of the hospital's
hemoglobinopathy program for "personnel" reasons, including her insistence that
she bring a lawyer to routine operational meetings.

Dr. Olivieri's research into an experimental drug for patients with a rare blood
disorder was sponsored by the drug firm Apotex Inc. When she attempted to
publicize results showing that deferiprone was not as effective as predicted,
the drug firm threatened her with legal action to enforce a confidentiality
agreement she had signed.

In a battle waged for more than two years, Dr. Olivieri charged that neither the
Hospital for Sick Children nor the University of Toronto properly supported her,
either legally or morally, in her dispute with Apotex.

But today, Dr. Olivieri is celebrating a reversal of fortune, thanks to the
intervention of two international heroes of blood research, Oxford University's
Sir David Weatherall and Harvard University's Dr. David Nathan, and the
late-night brokering of University of Toronto president Robert Prichard.
    They said they came to her aid largely because they respect her
ground-breaking research in blood disorders. And they worried that if the
dispute between the hospital and Dr. Olivieri were not resolved, it would
cripple the program -- and valuable research opportunities would be lost.

"It was very important that the university help Dr. Olivieri and the hospital
find common ground and the courage to seize it," Mr. Prichard said in an
interview yesterday, "so Dr. Olivieri could continue her very important work and
the hospital would remain the magnificent institution that it is."

A 16-point resolution, crafted by Mr. Prichard and signed by Dr. Olivieri and
Michael Strofolino, chief executive officer of the Hospital for Sick Children,
in the wee hours of yesterday morning, essentially allows Dr. Olivieri to take
her office, her research and her responsibilities as head of the pediatric
hemoglobinopathy program and move them across the street to Toronto Hospital,
where she is director of the same program for adults.

As part of the agreement, the hospital will pay Dr. Olivieri $150,000 for her
legal expenses and be responsible for any future legal costs due to the drug
controversy.

What's more, the hospital has agreed to "clean the slate" by withdrawing all
letters and written complaints about Dr. Olivieri that piled up as the
escalating controversy caused internal rancour at the hospital. The hospital
will further reinstate the right of Dr. Olivieri and her supporters to use
hospital E-mail freely and talk to the media.

"I'm personally thrilled," Dr. Olivieri said yesterday. She credited Mr.
Prichard for "working his magic" to arrive at the agreement.

Yet despite the concessions, the hospital's administrators still insist the
agreement with Dr. Olivieri in no way signalled that they have accepted blame
for their role in the controversy.

"The spirit in which this was all conducted is that we would avoid blame and
finger-pointing," Dr. Alan Goldbloom, the hospital's vice-president of academic
and clinical development, said yesterday.

Both Dr. Nathan and Sir David arrived in Toronto on Sunday evening to brief Mr.
Prichard on some of the scientific issues at stake in the dispute between Dr.
Olivieri and the hospital -- and to stress the importance of the
hemoglobinopathy program at the children's hospital to international research.

On Monday, both scientists were involved in a marathon session of negotiations
involving the hospital, Dr. Olivieri, her supporters and a beehive of lawyers.

"I have the highest admiration for the Hospital for Sick Children and the
University of Toronto medical school," Dr. Nathan said from Boston yesterday.
"They are among the greatest institutions in the world, and they do great things
when they are not distracted . . . and we want them to continue to do so."

While the agreement looks like vindication for Dr. Olivieri, it does nothing to
address the issue of how large institutions oversee and protect researchers in
an era when the largest portion of research funding comes from the
pharmaceutical industry, whose commercial aspirations depend on that research.

Yesterday, the hospital asserted it will continue with a planned review of its
policies and procedures governing clinical trials.

TERMS OF THE DEAL

Dr. Nancy Olivieri will move to Toronto Hospital from the Hospital for Sick
Children (HSC).

She will run both hospitals' hemoglobinopathy programs.

HSC will withdraw all letters of discipline and complaint against her and key
supporters.

HSC will pay legal and other expenses incurred in the dispute -- up to a maximum
of $150,000.

She will get a paid "mini-sabbatical" of six weeks as soon as possible and
another of 12 months within the next three years.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1999 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           February 4, 2012 Saturday

Aged couple's heir hopes remain frozen

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, Feb. 4 -- Casting a shadow on the efforts of an aged couple, who have
been fighting a legal battle to get their deceased son's semen and have a
grandchild through a surrogate mother, the hospital that preserves the semen has
refused to hand it over to them.

It was the 'Express' that first reported about the couple's legal battle on
December 30, 2011. Ratheesh, 28, son of Ravikumar and Karthyani of Angamaly, had
died of pneumonia in January 2011.

Ratheesh was referred to the Centre for Infertility Management and Assisted
Reproduction (CIMAR), Kochi, for semen preservation before the treatment for gem
cell tumour was started. The semen has been preserved at CIMAR, Kochi.

In a counter-affidavit, CIMAR director Dr Parasuram Gopinath submitted before
the Ernakulam Permanent Lok Adalat that there was no provision to hand over the
preserved semen to anyone, including the legal heirs or the parents of the
donor.

"It will not be possible to hand it over without any order from the court or a
competent authority," Gopinath said.

With the hospital taking such a decision, the couple have to wait for some more
time till the Adalat's final order. According to the hospital, at the time of
preserving the semen, Ratheesh had given a written consent stating that the
semen was to be stored in the hospital for one year and could be destroyed on
the expiry of the said period. But the hospital has been preserving it since
August 2010, and it was not destroyed.

The hospital authorities have expressed concern that the preserved sperm, if
used in future for pregnancy, may not be successful.

"The parents may be the legal heirs of Ratheesh, but the question is whether the
preserved semen comes within the definition of the 'estate of the deceased' to
which his legal heirs are entitled to succeed by virtue of principles of
intestate succession," the hospital said.

But the hospital authorities agreed that the semen contains sperms, which can be
used for artificial insemination or in surrogacy to develop an embryo which in
turn can grow into a live human being.

The couple, in their late 50s, now hope to get a child through assisted
reproductive technology by using the preserved semen.

Counsel for the couple Aniyan P Vakkom submitted that "their only demand is that
the semen stored in the hospital be released and they are ready to obey whatever
condition imposed by the Lok Adalat."

"I think the hospital is not against the wishes of the couple, but it requires a
legal support. We hope that justice will be done to us as the parents do not
have any other children and are too old to conceive and they have been planning
to have a child through assisted reproductive technology," said Aniyan.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                              March 1, 2004 Monday
                                     METRO

Hospital bulk-bill rort revealed

BYLINE: WENDY PRYER

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 480  words


Doctors directed against legal advice, says probe report

A SECRET report into Medicare rorting at two Perth hospitals has revealed
doctors were directed to bulk-bill patients by hospital management despite legal
advice not to.

The Health Insurance Commission report of its investigation into inappropriate
Medicare billing at Princess Margaret and King Edward Memorial hospitals has
been obtained by The West Australian under Freedom of Information laws after
repeated refusals in the past year by the Commonwealth and WA Health Department
to make it public.

Despite its release, key sections of the report have been deleted, including the
names of doctors and hospital managers along with details of how much taxpayers'
money was wrongly claimed and how much the Commonwealth wants the State to pay
back.

The HIC investigation came about after internal audits of PMH/KEMH were leaked
to The West Australian in 2000.

Those audits alleged PMH doctors were rorting Medicare by charging the
Commonwealth for services provided to patients at State-funded public hospital
outpatient clinics.

The Ernst and Young reports said the doctors were also being paid by the State
and it was unclear if they had personally benefited from the Medicare money they
had claimed.

The HIC report found: "It has been established that hospital management
initiated and promoted, despite many legal advisings, cost shift arrangements."

It said that in 1990 a hospital manager sent out letters to doctors saying
outpatient services should be privatised because of a lack of funding from the
State Government.

"His report was outlined as follows: 'the mechanism I am suggesting is that
where clinicians are unable to maintain adequate services, that we consider
converting the hospital service into a private service, maintaining exactly the
same level of service, but on a fee for service basis through Medicare'."

The HIC revealed that PMH/KEMH doctors were not told of legal advice given to
hospital managers which said the bulk-billing of Medicare for State-funded
services was in breach of Federal laws and exposed them to legal risk.

The report said the practice went on for 10 years but the HIC was only able to
investigate it over a two year period - between 1998 and 2000 - which was the
term of the last Medicare agreement between the Commonwealth and States.

The amount of money wrongly claimed was deleted from the report. The State
Government has revealed $1.2 million is being sought by the Commonwealth but
negotiations are continuing.

The Australian Medical Association, which has continually claimed PMH and KEMH
doctors were not rorting Medicare for their personal benefit, welcomed the
release of the report.

AMA president Brent Donovan said there was no point taking punitive action
against the managers responsible for directing doctors because it happened in
the past and practices had since changed.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2004 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 3, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Three maternity masters demand to retain control

BYLINE: Eilish O'Regan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 497 words


THE stakes have risen in the row over control of a new national maternity
hospital following a show of solidarity between the country's three masters.

Dr Sharon Sheehan of the Coombe and Prof Fergal Malone of the Rotunda have rowed
in behind master of the National Maternity Hospital, Dr Rhona Mahony, who is
involved in an intense stand-off with St Vincent's Healthcare Group.

A new national maternity hospital is earmarked to be built on the campus of St
Vincent's, but Dr Mahony said it has to maintain its own corporate governance.

In a new development, the two other masters have come out strongly in favour of
maternity hospitals maintaining independence after re-location.

Both the Rotunda and the Coombe, which are due to move to new locations, have
now put down a marker that they will also be insisting on holding on to their
corporate governance.

The Rotunda is due to move to Connolly Hospital campus and the Coombe is
earmarked for St James's Hospital.

In a strongly worded letter the three masters said the national maternity
strategy, launched earlier this year, supports the retention of the system of
masters with an executive and board.

It has "served women well in 260 years" and produced good clinical outcomes,
they added. Their intervention was a clear signal that any similar interference
with their autonomy when they eventually move will not be tolerated.

Meanwhile, Tom Lynch, chair of the Ireland East Hospital Group, which includes
St Vincent's and the national maternity hospital, appealed to them to allow for
further mediation by the independent mediator appointed by the Department of
Health.

Mr Lynch supports the St Vincent's Hospital proposal to integrate the governance
of the maternity hospital.

However, the failure of the outgoing government to legislate to give any legal
powers to hospital groups means they have little say in this kind of dispute.
Ireland East's precise legal standing is unclear.

>COLETTE BROWNE: Why is religious order blocking hospital plans? p24 Legal bid
over children's hospital site A GROUP of parents, doctors and children who
object to St James's Hospital as the site of the new National Children's
Hospital is seeking legal advice about appealing the planning permission for the
project.

Dr Roisin Healy, a retired Crumlin emergency consultant of the Connolly for Kids
group, admitted they could not afford a High Court judicial review and would
need a philanthropist to underwrite the legal costs.

The group want the hospital built at Connolly Hospital in Dublin, instead of the
St James's site.

She said they had gathered a petition of 46,782 people urging it be built on at
a 145-acre site near the M50.

Dr Healy said 15 consultants working in Crumlin and Temple Street have warned
the new children's hospital should be physically linked to a maternity hospital.

They have eight weeks to lodge a judicial review of the planning permission.

An Bord Pleanala granted permission to the St James's site last week after years
of debate.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 Hobart Mercury

                           February 20, 1990 Tuesday

BYLINE: AAP

LENGTH: 278 words


Man awarded $300,000 after failed suicide leap A MAN who leapt out of a hospital
window in an attempt to commit suicide won a $300,000 payout from the hospital
yesterday.

Mr Peter Reardon, 21, who was left a permanent paraplegic by the fall, sued the
Royal Melbourne Hospital for failing to stop him jumping.

The hospital agreed to the damages payout in an out-of-court settlement.

But experts consider the case sets a legal landmark.

The traditional legal view has been that defendants cannot be held liable for
failing to protect people from themselves.

Mr Reardon took the hospital to the Victorian Supreme Court, claiming hospital
staff were negligent in leaving him unattended when they knew he was suicidal.

In agreeing to the damages, the hospital said the payout was made with a denial
of liability.

Mr Ross Gillies, QC, for Mr Reardon, told a jury earlier that the young man was
admitted as suicidal and depressed only an hour before the suicide attempt.

He had a history of suicide attempts and psychiatric illness.

Mr Reardon had been left alone, and while he was hallucinating and shaking, he
caught a lift and jumped from a window, believed to have been on at least the
sixth floor, he said.

He had crashed on to the roof of the hospital's cafeteria, shattering his spine,
and was now a permanent paraplegic, Mr Gillies said.

He told the jury the hospital's failure to keep Mr Reardon under observation was
negligent, and amounted to a failure to fulfil its legal obligation to Mr
Reardon.

Mr Paul Henderson, of the legal firm, Slater and Gordon, said Mr Reardon was
happy with the payout, but did not wish to comment further.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              136 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             August 3, 2001, Friday

FAMILIES TO SUE NHS OVER ORGANS SCANDAL;
 THOUSANDS PLANNING MASS LEGAL ACTION SETTLEMENT CALL: Matt Redmond and, left,
daughter Karen, who died in 1966

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 328 words


FAMILIES devastated by the 'stolen organs' scandal at Birmingham Children's
Hospital are to join thousands of other parents in a mass legal action against
the NHS.

A High Court ruling has cleared the way for the Midland cases to be linked with
500 families suing Alder Hey - the Liverpool Hospital at the centre of the
controversy.

All litigation over organ retention nationwide will now be combined. It is
estimated at least 2,000 families are involved in legal action, with the NHS
facing a compensation bill of more than pounds 30 million.

Richard Follis, a partner at Irwin Mitchell solicitors representing more than 50
families suing the Children's Hospital, said the move would lead to faster
settlements.

Key test cases from different hospitals will be brought forward and presented in
a single court hearing.

It was agreed all litigation could be linked with the legal action already
underway against Alder Hey following a hearing at the High Court in Preston.

Mr Follis said: 'It will avoid a multiplicity of cases around the country,
saving money and time.'

Birmingham Children's Hospital has admitted retaining 1,100 organs from dead
patients. Parents have learnt that as many as 42 different body parts were taken
and used in medical research.

Legal action against the Children's Hospital was launched in October last year.

Lawyers at Irwin Mitchell in Birmingham have been investigating two key areas -
the unlawful removal, retention and disposal of parts of children's bodies and
the distress caused to parents as a result of the way the hospital handled the
issue.

Matt Redmond, chairman of Stolen Hearts, a support group set up for families
affected by the Children's Hospital scandal, called for a fast and satisfactory
settlement for parents.

Mr Redmond, a former city councillor from Acocks Green, discovered 42 organs and
body parts were removed from his daughter, Karen, after she died aged six in
1966.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              137 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

McMaster hospital helping families get legal aid

BYLINE: jfrketich@thespec.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 217 words


McMaster Children's hospital is helping the families of patients get free legal
help.

More than 30 families have already used the service announced Thursday at the
hospital on Main Street West.

McMaster partnered in November with Pro Bono Law Ontario, which already runs
similar programs in all of Ontario's other children's hospitals.

PBLO provides a triage lawyer twice a week at Chedoke and McMaster to assess the
severity of a family's issue, provide advice and train clinicians on how to spot
families with legal issues.

Families who need help are referred to the Hamilton Legal Clinic and local firms
Gowling Lafleur Henderson and Ross and McBride.

Some of the legal issues stem from the financial stress of having an ill child,
such as eviction or denial of disability benefits.

Others involve the fallout of caring for a sick kid such as problems getting
time off work, marriage breakdown or immigration hurdles in having a relative
from another country come to help out.

Sometimes it's accommodating a sick child, such as negotiating absences from
school, special education supports or proper housing.

PBLO has long wanted to add McMaster, but did not have the funding until it got
a $50,000 grant from the Atkinson Foundation.

It hopes to keep the program running with donations after the funding runs out.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

McMaster hospital helping families get legal aid

BYLINE: jfrketich@thespec.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 217 words


McMaster Children's hospital is helping the families of patients get free legal
help.

More than 30 families have already used the service announced Thursday at the
hospital on Main Street West.

McMaster partnered in November with Pro Bono Law Ontario, which already runs
similar programs in all of Ontario's other children's hospitals.

PBLO provides a triage lawyer twice a week at Chedoke and McMaster to assess the
severity of a family's issue, provide advice and train clinicians on how to spot
families with legal issues.

Families who need help are referred to the Hamilton Legal Clinic and local firms
Gowling Lafleur Henderson and Ross and McBride.

Some of the legal issues stem from the financial stress of having an ill child,
such as eviction or denial of disability benefits.

Others involve the fallout of caring for a sick kid such as problems getting
time off work, marriage breakdown or immigration hurdles in having a relative
from another country come to help out.

Sometimes it's accommodating a sick child, such as negotiating absences from
school, special education supports or proper housing.

PBLO has long wanted to add McMaster, but did not have the funding until it got
a $50,000 grant from the Atkinson Foundation.

It hopes to keep the program running with donations after the funding runs out.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       March 6, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Judge Masan Research Go Grassroots Legal Service
Over Countryside

LENGTH: 336  words


Beijing, March 6 -- Mashan County People's Court of party secretary, president
Qinge Bing Mashan line 4-depth coverage and Guzhai ethnic Yao conduct roving
investigators and other aspects of the legal status of rural research.



The hospital visited the research found: In recent years, the ancient Xiang
farmers to carry out planting honeysuckle in support of the government, rising
incomes, many migrant farmers have returned home. Increase in population has led
to an increase in legal disputes, because the relatively weak legal
consciousness of the villagers, many disputes are often not satisfied with the
results.

For this case, the hospital made the following countermeasures. First, adjust
the investigators. Gu Xiang unified litigation services handled by the hospital
ancient peoples court zero. The hospital deployed two trials experienced, strong
mediation capacity of the judicial officers to zero the ancient court, the
better to provide legal assistance to the villagers within their jurisdictions.
The second is to add service route. Make full use of judicial public hospital
three platforms, actively popularize legal knowledge to the villagers. The
villagers do not go to court, as long as the mobile phone and the network at
home can understand the hospital announced the trial process, the referee
clerical and executive information. The third is sent to carry out illegal
activities. I use the trial to send France to carry out the business of leisure
activities in the countryside, through easy to understand explanations,
advocacy, to improve the legal awareness of the villagers.

It is the fifth French countryside service delivery activities carried out by
the hospital this year, the Party's mass line of educational practice, and it is
the first stop, "learning from Lei Feng" volunteer service month activities.
Next, the hospital will combine a variety of practical activities to carry out
legal advisory services masses understand the legal needs of the masses, and
better serve the masses.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

NEW pounds 451M ROYAL 'WILL BE BUILT';
Campaigner drops legal challenge

BYLINE: LIZA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 505 words


ROYAL Liverpool hospital bosses today said they were "delighted" after a legal
challenge threatening the pounds 451m rebuild project was withdrawn.

They confirmed the path was now clear for the new hospital to be built.

Campaign group Keep Our NHS Public (KONP) was due to drag Royal Hospital bosses
and the Department of Health into the High Court later this week.

But the group has now dropped the case.

KONP were against the use of Private Finance Initiative (PFI) cash for the
build, which members said would leave the region with crippling debts that could
impact on future health services.

Tony Bell, chief executive at the Royal, said: "We are absolutely delighted to
hear this legal challenge is now over. We are sure the people of Merseyside, who
have given so much support to the new Royal, will be pleased to hear this news.

"We can now press ahead with the exciting task of working with our three bidders
to create a world-class hospital for the people of this city.

"We can also continue with our plans for the Liverpool BioCampus, which will
attract significant investment and development opportunities for the whole
city."

The hospital will narrow the list of bidders set to build the hospital down to
two in the coming months.

Liverpool City Council leader Joe Anderson said: "It is fantastic news. Now we
can get on with building a hospital that is fit for purpose, creating jobs and
apprenticeships."

At the end of January leading campaigner Sam Semoff was told legal aid for his
case was being withdrawn by the Legal Services Commission. As a result he has
withdrawn the action. The High Court hearing, scheduled for Friday, was itself
an appeal after Semoff 's initial application for a Judicial Review was thrown
out.

And it was the second time Semoff had applied for a Judicial Review, in a saga
that has run for two years.

The total legal bill for the challenges is estimated to be well into six
figures. Health chiefs also predict each month the hospital has been delayed
will add pounds 1m to its final bill.

The Royal estimates the build has been put back by around six months, with a
finished hospital expected late 2016. KONP claimed the PFI scheme would cost at
least pounds 1.24bn over 34 years, while public finance would cost pounds 730m.
But health chiefs said these figures were not accurate.

A statement from KONP said: "Sam Semoff has principles but very little money.

"Very reluctantly, on legal advice, he has withdrawn his case.

"The campaign group Keep Our NHS Public Merseyside congratulates Sam on his
magnificent battle.

"Paying for PFI will be top priority, coming before clinical need.

"Money will flow from the NHS to banks and private investors.

"The excess debt will force cuts in NHS services across Merseyside for the next
generation, pushing patients towards private healthcare."

Mr Semoff added: Now that the scheme's current costs are known, I call on trust
directors to formally request the government to allow public finance for
Liverpool's new hospital.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PRINCIPLES BUT LITTLE MONEY: Sam Semoff has withdrawn the case

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              April 7, 2014 Monday

Halifax Health CEO: $85M settlement won't affect patient care

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 514  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- An $85 million legal settlement will reduce the cash available
for Halifax Health to replace aging equipment and make large purchases in the
future, but the effects won't be felt immediately, the hospital's chief
financial officer said Monday.

The 678-bed public hospital system's cash position was "significantly impacted,"
but the president's health care law will have a bigger financial impact on the
budget moving forward because of tighter government reimbursements, CFO Eric
Peburn told the Halifax Health Board of Commissioners, the seven-member panel
that oversees the hospital.

"We certainly need to re-evaluate," Peburn said in his first public statement on
the settlement's financial toll.

Hospital officials did not elaborate on what that could mean for the community
provider and its roughly 4,000 employees, but spokesman John Guthrie said all
options are on the table during coming budget discussions.

Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel said patient care will not be affected as a
result of the hospital's legal troubles.

The comments came just days after lawyers for the whistleblower, who brought the
suit, filed a motion with the court asking for $7.3 million in legal fees and
expenses on top of the $85 million settlement. The two parties were unable to
reach an agreement on the legal fees, and a judge will decide the matter,
according to a motion filed over the weekend.

The settlement resolved part of the federal whistleblower lawsuit filed in 2009
by Elin Baklid-Kunz, director of physician services. Baklid-Kunz accused the
hospital of maintaining illegal contracts with doctors and submitting false
Medicare claims.

Halifax Health officials have consistently denied the allegations in the suit
but admitted in the settlement reached with the U.S. Department of Justice that
the hospital violated the Stark Law. That regulation prohibits agreements with
physicians that compensate them based on referrals and volumes. In the
settlement, the hospital agreed to abide by the terms of a corporate-integrity
agreement for five years, which will result in greater governmental oversight.

The hospital had no other options than to settle, said John Johnson, chairman of
the hospital board and president of Embry- Riddle Aeronautical University.

"Had we not taken that action we could have put the hospital into a devastating
financial scenario," he said. "We wanted to avoid that at all cost to protect
the hospital and all the people who work here."

The money to pay the settlement came from the funded depreciation account, which
is used to replace equipment, Peburn said. The hospital also has spent more than
$22 million on its legal defense in the case. In September, the hospital had
reserves of about $420 million, which helped it absorb the financial blow from
the settlement.

A second part of the case is set for trial in July. That part of the lawsuit
focuses on allegations that the hospital overbilled Medicare by admitting
patients for hospital stays of two days or less without sufficient medical
justification. The hospital has denied the allegations.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              142 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           December 27, 1990 Thursday

HOSPITAL MAY APPEAL OVER $15M AIDS BILL

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: EVANS S

LENGTH: 507 words


Hospital may appeal over $15m AIDS bill From SIMON EVANS in Melbourne THE Alfred
Hospital is likely to appeal against a $15 million legal bill it has been
ordered to pay on behalf of a middle-aged patient who contracted AIDS six years
ago after being treated at the hospital. The acting medical director, Dr John
Wiseman, said there was a 90 percent chance the hospital would appeal to the
Full Bench of the Supreme Court to have the decision on legal costs reversed.
Hospital officials, insurance company representatives, solicitors and the
officials from the Health Department of Victoria have scheduled a meeting for
tomorrow to discuss the appeal. The Alfred Hospital, based in the inner-eastern
suburb of Prahran, was covered against damages and legal costs but the unnamed
insurance company was ""distressed" by the $15 million legal costs bill, Dr
Wiseman said. Justice McGarvie on Monday ordered that legal costs for the man,
known as PQ, the Australian Red Cross and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories be
met by the Alfred Hospital. Two days earlier, PQ was awarded more than $870,000
by a Supreme Court jury as compensation for pain, suffering, medical expenses
and loss of income after he was treated with a blood product at the hospital.
The trial lasted more than 90 days and cost an estimated $15 million. PQ was the
first Australian to successfully sue over AIDS infection and the landmark
decision is expected to open a floodgate of multimillion-dollar damages claims
by up to 400 haemophiliacs infected during treatment at hospitals throughout the
country. PQ, who is married with children, launched his landmark legal action in
July against the Australian Red Cross Society, the Alfred Hospital and the
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, claiming it was through their negligence that
he became HIV positive late in 1984. But the Alfred Hospital was found to be the
only negligent party. ""These costs are quite a slug," Dr Wiseman said. ""Over
the next day, we'll have a more exact idea of the final bill, but $15 million
appears to be a reliable estimate. ""The insurance company is experiencing
significant discomfort, to say the least, at the prospect of such costs.
""Unfortunately, it is the taxpayer who ultimately will have to pay because the
Health Department pays the insurance premiums for public hospitals." Dr Wiseman
said the hospital, insurers and solicitors still had a number of questions about
the case. ""Considering that there still are questions and uncertainties about
the case, there will be a need to look at an appeal," Dr Wiseman said. The chief
general manager of the Victorian Health Department, Mr Tim Daly, said insurance
policies managed by the department covered all public hospitals and community
health centres. ""We don't have simply one policy with one company but a series
of policies underwritten by several companies," Mr Daly said. ""Any damages
sustained by the Alfred Hospital will have to be resolved between the hospital
and its insurance company."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              143 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             March 18, 2014 Tuesday

Rating agency downgrades Halifax Health

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 985  words


Halifax Health

DAYTONA BEACH -- Fitch Ratings has downgraded Halifax Health's credit rating as
a result of an $85 million legal settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice.

The ratings agency lowered the hospital's rating from BBB+ to BBB, writing that
smaller reserves and "modest levels of profitability" were key drivers in its
decision. A lower credit rating could result in the 678-bed public hospital
system paying higher interest rates when it borrows money in the future, and
unless it obtains a waiver, the hospital will be in default on some of its debt.

Hospital officials settled part of a whistleblower lawsuit with the Department
of Justice on March 10 accusing Halifax Health of maintaining illegal contracts
with doctors and submitting false Medicare claims. The hospital has spent $22
million in legal fees defending itself in the lawsuit filed in 2009 by Elin
Baklid-Kunz, director of physician services. Another part of the suit that the
Justice Department did not intervene on is set for trial in July.

Halifax Health officials declined to comment about the downgrade, saying that
public comments could be used against them during the pending litigation. The
hospital paid the $85 million settlement amount Friday, said John Guthrie, a
Halifax Health spokesman.

Hospital management told the rating agency they will be forced to violate some
of the promises they made to bondholders -- called covenants. The hospital will
be required to obtain waiver agreements for this fiscal year, and if it fails to
do so, the hospital will be in default, an event that Fitch views as unlikely,
according to the report.

The settlement and accrued legal fees are a "real kick in the teeth" for Halifax
Health, said Aaron Liberman, a retired health economist from the University of
Central Florida and a health care consultant. The violation of bond covenants
shows the hospital is under stress, he said.

"That is a great concern," Liberman said. "That really indicates that the
hospital is going to be in a rather precarious financial position. They've got
some challenges in their immediate future."

The hospital had a hefty cash reserve of $420 million as of Sept. 30, compared
with about $348.2 million in long-term debt. Hospital officials said they would
pay the settlement from the funded depreciation account, which is money set
aside to replace aging equipment and other assets.

The Halifax Health Board of Commissioners, a seven-member panel that oversees
the hospital, voted 6-1 in a Sunday meeting on March 9 to approve the
settlement, according to an audio recording of the meeting that was provided by
the hospital Tuesday in response to a public records request. Hospital
Commissioner Fred Costello cast the sole dissenting vote.

Vice Chairman Glenn Ritchey made the motion to settle the case, and Commissioner
Dan Francati seconded. Chairman John Johnson, along with commissioners Susan
Schandel, Karen Jans and Harold Goodemote, voted in favor.

Based on advice from an attorney, the board agreed to maintain a "unified
messaging strategy," where a single person would communicate the hospital's
position to the media and to the community to avoid inconsistencies that could
be used against the hospital during future legal proceedings. Halifax Health
commissioners have deferred questions to their attorneys.

Costello, who joined the board in June, said during the meeting he wasn't sure
whether he fully supported that, suggesting the board chairman comment about the
ramifications of the case. Costello agreed to refrain from making public
statements.

"There are people that are asking me why we still have the same attorney, why we
still have the same CEO," Costello said during the meeting. "I think it's
important they know these things predate some of these folks here."

The government was concerned about contracts the hospital had in place from the
2005 to 2008 fiscal years for six cancer doctors, along with employment
agreements with three neurosurgeons. The hospital admitted it provided bonuses
to cancer doctors based on the department's operating margin in violation of the
Stark Law. The Justice Department says such arrangements can result in
unnecessary medical procedures and drive up health care costs.

Dave Davidson, who has served as the hospital's general counsel since 1991, told
the board the employment agreements don't predate him.

"I take full ownership for these contracts," he said during the meeting.

Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel was appointed CEO and president in January 2005,
according to his biography on the hospital's website. He joined the hospital in
2000 filling various roles, including chief operating officer, and president and
CEO of patient business and financial services.

The hospital will be under greater federal oversight as a result of a corporate
integrity agreement it signed as part of the settlement. A compliance expert
will advise the board and a legal reviewer will examine physician contracts,
Davidson told the board. The compliance department will report directly to the
Board of Commissioners, instead of reporting to the legal department.

"If the compliance officer picks up the phone and calls one of you all, it's not
going to be under my purview to fire him because I didn't want him to call you,"
Feasel told the board during the meeting.

A trial is set for July on the allegations the hospital did not settle. The
whistleblower and her attorneys, who received $20.8 million of the settlement,
are accusing the hospital of admitting patients to the hospital for stays of two
days or less that were not medically necessary. They are seeking more than
$246.5 million on those claims, which the Justice Department did not intervene
on.

Halifax Health has consistently denied the whistleblower's accusations.

The legal fees and potential damages in the upcoming part of the case could
erode Halifax Health's financial position further, Fitch wrote.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              144 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            January 15, 1999 Friday
                                 Early Edition

FoI nurses blast hospital;
Premier vows to change law after triple killer given access to 51 names

BYLINE: LYALL JOHNSON and SANDRA McKAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 720 words


A Melbourne hospital has been accused of incompetence and betraying staff after
a convicted triple murderer was given the names of 51 nurses as part of a bid to
clear his name.

The Premier has also expressed horror and vowed to rewrite Victoria's freedom of
information laws after Ashley Mervyn Coulston's successful application for the
names of the nurses, all from Frankston Hospital.

The names were given to Coulston without the nurses' knowledge after a series of
applications to the state's main civil tribunal.

Coulston, 42, is serving a life sentence for the execution-style murders of Anne
Smerdon and Kerryn Henstridge, 22, and Peter Dempsey, 27, who were found bound,
gagged and shot through the head at their rented Burwood home in July 1992.

Coulston has always protested his innocence, claiming he was visiting his
partner in Frankston Hospital at the time of the killings. His application for
the nurses' names was ostensibly part of a bid to prove his alibi and get his
case re-opened.

One nurse whose name was given to Coulston said yesterday that she was "very
scared and very angry". But the nurse, who declined to be named, said she
understood Coulston's purported motives in seeking the names.

"We feel we have been denied any control about how our names will be used. We
feel betrayed by the hospital, and scared about what the future may hold," she
said.

Coulston was granted access to the names on 23 November last year on appeal to
the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) after two applications
under freedom of information were denied by the hospital.

The matter has only just come to light because hospital management did not
inform the nurses of the issue until last week.

VCAT and Frankston Hospital immediately came under fire yesterday from the
Australian Nursing Federation and Mr Kennett, who has ordered reviews of VCAT
procedures and freedom-of-information laws.

Mr Kennett described it as the "most outrageous incident I have heard about". He
said he had had concerns both about VCAT and the Freedom of Information Act for
some time.

"There is something terribly wrong when VCAT - and this is a legal body - can't
understand the ramifications of giving out to an individual the names of people
who only are going about their duty in the interests of humanity," he said.

The nursing federation accused the hospital of not properly protecting the
privacy of its nurses by failing to send legal representation to the appeal, and
instead relying on a doctor.

Coulston represented himself in the hearing via video link from Barwon Prison.

According to the federation, nurses at the Frankston Hospital are now living in
fear. The union's Victorian branch secretary, Ms Belinda Morieson, said hospital
management did not notify the nurses concerned, and instead issued a memo to a
charge nurse who did not receive it until last week because she was on holidays.
Ms Morieson said she was "physically appalled by the incompetence shown by the
hospital".

The Attorney-General, Mrs Jan Wade, said it was unfortunate the hospital had no
legal representation at the case. She also said its failure to appeal against
the decision meant it would not be reviewed by the Supreme Court.

The chairman of the Mornington Peninsula Health Care Network, which administers
the hospital, Mr Bob Polk, said the hospital had fought for two years to try to
stop the release of the list, and it was "terribly easy in hindsight" to
criticise it.

Mr Polk said that on its earlier legal advice, the hospital had been "supremely
confident" of winning the case, and had not bothered to send a lawyer to the
hearing. He said the hospital was "shattered" when the tribunal ruled against
it, and did not seek further legal advice before releasing the roster to
Coulston.

"Jan Wade is entitled to say it was a pity, and maybe it was, but the decision
(not to appeal to the Supreme Court) was made with the best available
information at that time," he said.

Coulston's lawyer, Mr Rainer Ellinghaus, defended Coulston's right to seek the
names of the nurses, saying it was the only chance for him to clear his name.

The re-surfacing of the case has "renewed it something terrible" for the father
of Peter Dempsey, one of the victims. Mr Frank Dempsey said Coulston should
never have been allowed access to the names of the nurses.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashley Mervyn Coulston: serving a life term for the murder of
three Burwood housemates.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             June 10, 2005, Friday

HOSPITAL LEGAL ACTION TO GET RID OF PATIENT

BYLINE: BY LIZ HAZELTON LIZ.HAZELTON@MRN.CO.UK

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 237 words

HIGHLIGHT: BEDBLOCKER: Baljit Singh refused to leave Walsgrave Hospital but has
now been forced out by a court order


HEALTH bosses have had to take legal action to evict a patient who refused to
leave Walsgrave Hospital.

Baljit Singh arrived in this country a few weeks ago and went straight to the
hospital for treatment for a kidney complaint.

He was treated but when doctors tried to discharge him he refused to go and took
out a high court injunction.

The hospital won the right to turf him out on Monday ! now he has launched a new
legal bid to get the council to provide him with housing.

The cases have already totted up a bill of tens of thousands of pounds ! all
funded by the tax payer.

Alice Casey, chief operating officer for University Hospitals Coventry and
Warwickshire NHS Trust, which runs Walsgrave, said: "This is an extremely
unusual situation for our hospital and we have done everything in our power to
discharge Mr Singh without resorting to legal action.

"Unfortunately, although he has been assessed as medically fit to be discharged
for some time he has refused to leave and took out an injunction against the
Trust to prevent us from discharging him.

"It is entirely appropriate for Mr Singh to be treated as an outpatient for his
dialysis, he does not need a hospital bed."

Coventry city council today confirmed it was also involved in legal action with
Mr Singh.

The high court has ordered sociial services to provide him with accommodation
while proceedings continue.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited


                              146 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             The New Zealand Herald

                            June 28, 2000 Wednesday

Courts lift shield of legal aid on frivolous lawsuits

BYLINE: By ANGELA GREGORY

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 749 words


A High Court judge has ordered an unemployed woman on legal aid to pay $10,000
court costs after she lost a $550,000 suit against a surgeon and a hospital.

The woman had sought exemplary damages of $550,000 from the two parties after a
hospital doctor - not the surgeon - mistakenly gave her iodine which permanently
damaged her thyroid gland.

Identities of the parties were permanently suppressed in the nine-day trial last
September.

In a reserved judgment on costs, Justice Penlington said that, while the
hospital's negligence was proven, the claim for exemplary damages was hopeless
and "doomed from the start."

He ordered the woman to pay costs totalling $10,000 to the surgeon and hospital.

In a similar case, the Environment Court awarded $1200 costs against a Whangarei
man whose legal aid-financed battle failed to overturn the approval of a $75
million port development at Marsden Pt.

Judge David Sheppard said the arguments raised had gone beyond the court's
jurisdiction and the case was not mounted or handled satisfactorily.

He said the costs he awarded against the man were aimed at avoiding a perception
that someone backed by legal aid was free to conduct litigation in a way that
imposed unnecessary costs on his opponents with impunity.

The Northland Regional Council was now seeking further costs of $3450 from a
legal aid subcommittee, while the Northland Port Corporation was still
considering its options.

The hearing had cost the council $32,400 and the port company $401,099.

The Legal Services Board says an increasing number of decisions like these show
that judges' attitudes are now hardening against people who use legal aid to
take weak civil cases to court.

The board's executive director, Dave Smith, said non-family civil cases financed
by legal aid were the main concern and there seemed to be a "growing judicial
impatience" with them.

"They cost about $8 million in legal aid a year and in quite a lot of cases are
misconceived."

Mr Smith said many people thought if they took a case on legal aid they were
spared the threat of costs against them.

"Judges are making it clear they should not be assuming that."

He hoped the risk of misuse of legal aid money would be reduced by a proposed
law change, which would contract agencies to take over the work of distributing
legal aid from district subcommittees run by volunteer lawyers.

The Legal Services Bill is before the justice and electoral select committee,
which is due to report to Parliament by the end of the month.

In the hospital decision, Justice Penlington said the woman had started the
legal action outside the statutory time limits without asking the court's leave
and had sought an unrealistic sum.

He said the woman had offered no evidence to show the hospital had flagrantly
disregarded her safety, nor any to support her serious accusation of a
conspiracy of silence over her treatment.

Had she not been on legal aid, Justice Penlington said, he would have awarded
costs against her totalling $105,000.

He noted her only real asset was her share of a matrimonial home valued at
$120,000 which was still subject to a large mortgage.

The woman's legal action had taken up 12 court days and cost the surgeon,
understood to be insured, about $96,000 and the hospital $61,000.

A lawyer for the hospital said the case should never have been paid for by legal
aid, and he has asked the subcommittee which approved the grant for its files.

The hospital was now considering seeking costs from the legal aid subcommittee,
he said.

"The whole case was extremely frustrating and very distressing for the doctors
involved. There is no more dangerous an opponent than a legally aided
complainant who thinks they have nothing to lose."

The lawyer hoped the judgment would send a signal to other people with
"worthless claims" that they could not rely on hiding behind the shield of legal
aid.

The convener of the Auckland District Law Society's legal aid committee, Simon
Reeves, said he had confidence in the way legal aid was distributed.

He said checks and balances were in place and subcommittees could request
further information, or second opinions, on cases before deciding whether funds
should be granted.

In many cases the applications were refused, he said.

Mr Reeves said it was difficult to know in advance whether a case would be
successful, or argue its merits until it was tested in court.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

          Copyright 2000 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.


                              147 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           November 10, 2016 Thursday

Union and minister lash HSE for memo

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 416 words


Yesterday both Health Minister Simon Harris and Irish Nurses and Midwives
Organisation (INMO) general secretary Liam Doran condemned the memo written by
the HSE s legal advisers and issued to its national director of acute hospitals,
Liam Woods, on October 11.

The memo outlines how a patient s right to be on a hospital premises  is merely
a licence and once that has been abused, the nurse is also legally entitled to
remove the person as a trespass, using minimum force to do so .

The document says that given the country has entered flu season and there is
likely to be a greater demand on acute hospital beds, the HSE s contracted legal
firms are ready and capable of assisting any hospital which may have
difficulties in freeing up hospital beds  where patients are incapable or
unwilling to give up those beds .

The HSE memo says that unlike with education, there is no express right to free
health services in the Constitution.

However, the advice to remove patients is understood not to extend to private
patients. Mr Doran said this is because private patients represent  a stream of
money  for hospitals.

He described the memo as  madness, immoral, bizarre, and unbelievable .

He questioned the HSE  mindset  that went into drawing up several pages of legal
advice on how to remove patients at a time when minds should be focused on
devising practical solutions to the bed crisis.

Mr Doran said the INMO had only learned of the memo on October 25 and were told
on October 27 that it had been withdrawn.

Mr Doran said the HSE had  lost its soul  and that the memo was disrespectful
towards nurses.

It s an attitudinal thing that nurses will do what they are told. Well they won
t,  Mr Doran said on RTÉ radio.

Mr Harris tweeted that the memo was  utterly offensive and unacceptable . He
said it had been rescinded by the HSE at his request.

Last night the HSE said it was  not HSE policy to remove any patient, clinically
discharged or otherwise, from a hospital bed .

The HSE said the information in the memo  reflects the current legal position
and was shared by way of information with hospital managers following a request
by a third party for clarification on this matter .

While the memo outlines the current legal position, it has been rescinded in
light of concerns raised by staff and does not reflect HSE policy,  it said in a
statement.

Mr Woods told RTÉ radio that it was  a legal briefing note  but failed to
explain who had commissioned it or why it had been circulated to hospital
groups.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                  2ND Edition

Hospital court bid dropped;
Appeal set to be shelved

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 315 words


A LEGAL challenge which threatened to derail the new pounds 451m Royal Liverpool
Hospital was set to be sensationally dropped today.

Campaign group Keep Our NHS Public (KONP) was due to drag hospital bosses and
the department of health into the high court later this week.

But the ECHO understands it has had to drop its case.

The group had hoped to overturn the government's decision to bankroll the
building project through a controversial private finance initiative (PFI).

KONP claimed a PFI would leave the region with crippling debts which could
impact on future health services.

But at the end of January, leading campaigner Sam Semoff was told legal aid for
his case was being withdrawn by the Legal Services Commission.

He was set to appeal the decision, but it left him facing a potentially huge
bill to take the case to court.

It is expected Royal bosses will be relieved the legal battle is over after
nearly two years.

Mr Semoff won the right to have an initial judicial review hearing in 2009 after
he claimed public consultation held to gauge support for the new hospital was
inadequate because it did not mention PFI funding.

He later withdrew his challenge after the hospital agreed to hold another
mini-consultation.

But then in August last year, Mr Semoff issued fresh proceedings at the high
court.

This time, he criticised the department of health's decision to approve the new
hospital's "outline business case".

The total legal bill for the challenges is estimated to be well into six
figures. Health chiefs also predict each month the hospital has been delayed
will add pounds 1m to its final bill.

The Royal declined to comment today.

Members of KONP also said they were unable to issue a statement but would be
commenting later today.

But Central Cllr Nick Small said: "This is excellent news.

"I am glad that KONP has finally seen sense on this."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  APPEAL: Sam Semoff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            September 1, 2006 Friday

Birth complaints for hospitals

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words


Hospitals in Leicester receive one of the highest levels of complaints about
problems at birth, new figures reveal.

Across the country, hundreds of families a year launch legal action for injuries
suffered by babies at birth.

In Leicester, a total of 78 claims have been made in the past five years.

The highest number was at Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Trust where 84 potential
legal actions were notified.

However, bosses at the University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust say theirs is
one of the biggest maternity units in the country.

There are an average of 9,300 babies born each year at Leicester Royal
Infirmary, Leicester General Hospital and St Mary's.

A spokesman for the trust said there were less than two legal claims made per
1,000 births.

He added: "Because a legal claim is submitted this does not mean there is a case
of negligence to answer or that the claim will be successful."

There have been a number of high-profile compensation claims in Leicester but
they have often taken years to settle.

Wendy Jones' son Daniel was born with brain damage in 1986 after being starved
of oxygen.

It took the family 14 years to secure a settlement of £1.1million.

Daniel, now 19, suffers from acute cerebral palsy and needs round-the-clock
care.

In 2002, Alexandra Upton, then aged 10, was awarded £3.3 million compensation
after her birth left her with cerebral palsy.

The previous year George Herbert, then eight years old, was awarded £2.6 million
compensation after his birth left him with epilepsy, cerebral palsy and spastic
quadriplegia.

The latest figures were obtained by the Sunday Times newspaper under the Freedom
of Information Act.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                          September 24, 1998, Thursday

ELDERLY RESIDENTS MOVED AGAIN

BYLINE: By MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: News; Pg.  76

LENGTH: 301 words


Twenty elderly and frail residents yanked from their nursing home and moved to
Queens Hospital Center two weeks ago were transferred again yesterday, this time
to a long-term care center.

The group was among the 300 Neponsit Health Care Center patients moved from the
crumbling Far Rockaway facility in the middle of the night Sept. 10 to
acute-care hospitals in Queens, Manhattan and Brooklyn.

New York City Health and Hospitals Corp. officials were under pressure from
state and federal regulators to get the senior citizens out of the old
tuberculosis ward at Queens Hospital Center because of problems there.

Nursing home advocates said that the Queens ward was filled with paint fumes,
that elderly men accustomed to private rooms were sleeping in open wards and
that patients were denied the freedom they enjoyed at the oceanside Neponsit
home.

"The patients are so upset. They don't know where they are," said Anne Dierking,
a lawyer with Legal Aid Society.

The 20 were moved to the new nursing center at Kings County Hospital in
Brooklyn. An additional 65 former Neponsit residents will be moved there next
week.

Most of the remaining Neponsit patients have been placed at the Coler-Goldwater
Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island, a long-term care facility.

HHC President Luis Marcos said residents were in immediate danger from falling
bricks and decaying steel supports at Neponsit, and a hasty move to the
acute-care hospitals was unavoidable.

Meanwhile, federal Health Care Financing Administration officials want to know
whether the emergency closing of the 85-year-old Neponsit complex was avoidable.
They are sending in an independent civil engineer who will report whether the
residents can ever return to a place some called home for more than 15 years.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1998 Daily News, L.P.


                              151 of 993 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2004 New York University School of Law
          New York University Journal of Legislation and Public Policy

                                  2004 / 2005

                       8 N.Y.U. J. Legis. & Pub. Pol'y 5

LENGTH: 13526 words

INCREASING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE: METHODS TO ADDRESS THE NATIONAL CRISIS:
ARTICLE: THE CASE FOR REFORM: HOW NEW YORK STATE'S SECRET HOSPITAL CHARITY CARE
POOL FUNDS FAIL TO HELP UNINSURED AND UNDERINSURED NEW YORKERS

NAME: Elisabeth Benjamin & Kat Gabriesheski

TEXT:
 [*5]

   Christine and Ed King live in New Jersey. After the World Trade Center
disaster, Ed was only able to get a part-time tech job that paid just $ 350 per
week ($ 18,000 per year) and did not offer health insurance. When their baby,
Stella, was born with a cleft palate, the Kings were able to apply for and
receive New Jersey State "charity care" funds administered through the hospital.
At a six-month post-natal visit, Christine's doctors discovered a baseball-sized
cancerous tumor on her ovary. Christine had a hysterectomy, again paid for by
New Jersey State charity care funds. During the operation, the doctors
discovered that the cancer had spread to her kidney and had metastasized. Short
of a miracle, Christine was expected to die.

   Christine's doctors referred her to a national expert on her type of cancer
at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in the Bronx, which receives roughly $ 6 million a
year from New York State to provide charity care. Our Lady of Mercy refused to
provide Christine life saving cancer treatment unless she paid $ 20,000 of her
projected $ 80,000 bill in advance of her admission.

   When Ed asked hospital staff for the charity care application, hospital staff
claimed that, unlike New Jersey, New York State did not have a charity care
program. Then Legal Aid Society attorneys contacted the hospital's legal counsel
and asked if some of Our Lady of Mercy's $ 6 million annual allotment could be
applied to Christine's case. The hospital's attorneys refused, stating that New
York's program was not established to help individual patients.

   Introduction

 The hospital industry's treatment of the estimated 43.6 million uninsured
Americans, in addition to the millions more whose health insurance is inadequate
for their needs, has been the focus of recent  [*6]  debate and advocacy efforts
around the country. n1 As of 2002, three million individuals in New York State
alone were estimated to have no health insurance. n2 Advocates are confronted
with increased demands for help from uninsured and underinsured patients who
face overwhelming medical bills, aggressive collection agencies and limited
avenues of relief. n3

   In a response to this crisis and to desperate calls from clients, The Legal
Aid Society of New York City (Legal Aid) decided to investigate how New York
State finances its care of the uninsured and the underinsured. n4 Specifically,
Legal Aid wanted to know what happened to New York State's annual allocation of
approximately $ 847 million to hospitals for their care of patients who cannot
afford to pay their medical bills though the State's Bad Debt and Charity Care
(BDCC) pool. n5 In the summer of 2003, Legal Aid surveyed and documented the
accessibility of free and discounted care for uninsured or underinsured patients
at twenty-two New York City hospitals n6 that  [*7]  collectively receive $ 316
million, or nearly 40%, of the State's allocation of BDCC funds each year. n7

   The Legal Aid study found that, unlike some neighboring states, n8 New York
(1) requires virtually no accountability for the millions of dollars allocated
for BDCC funds; (2) ignores the need for a standardized application and
eligibility system and notification to low-income New Yorkers on how to access
this money; and (3) fails to regulate hospital "charge" rates for uninsured and
underinsured low-income families or to set reasonable standards for billing and
collection practices. n9

   Section I of this article sets forth the history and components of the BDCC
funding pool. Section II explores the scope of the Legal Aid study, including
its methodology and findings, and its recommendations are described in Section
III. Section IV provides an analysis of the responses by New York hospitals, as
indicated by their regional trade groups, including the allegation that federal
law prohibits them from offering discounted care to the uninsured. The
conclusion asks what more should be done with the information gathered by the
study.

   I.

 Background: New York's Bad Debt and Charity Care Pool


   A. What is the BDCC Pool?

 Every year, the New York State Department of Health provides nearly a billion
dollars of Bad Debt and Charity Care funds to state hospitals. In 2003,
hospitals were allocated $ 847 million for the uncompensated  [*8]  care
purportedly provided to patients in 2001. n10 Historically, hospitals attempted
to recover their losses from bad debt n11 and charity care n12 by increasing
charges for those patients or payers. n13 In an attempt to mitigate this
practice, as well as to redistribute the care of the uninsured across a wider
range of hospitals, the legislature adopted the New York Prospective Hospital
Reimbursement Methodology in 1983. n14 This legislation, among many other
things, included a methodology for raising a funding pool to reimburse hospitals
for some of the financial burden caused by bad debt and charity care. n15

   The BDCC pool is funded by third-party payers (except for Medicare), which
are assessed add-on charges. The charge is allocated among geographical regions
within the state, and is dependent on whether the hospital is a major public
hospital or a voluntary nonprofit, private proprietary, or non-major public
general hospital. n16 Current legislation also provides for an assessment based
on the gross revenues of general hospitals, which is placed into a statewide
pool. n17 In January 1997, these funding pools became a part of the 1996 Health
Care Reform Act (HCRA), n18 which was recently extended through June 2005. n19
The HCRA includes other funding pools that benefit the hospital industry as
well, such as the Graduate Medical Education  [*9]  funding, which collected
approximately $ 1.4 billion annually from 1997 through 1999 to support teaching
hospitals in the state. n20

   The New York Department of Health (DOH) is required under state law to
determine each hospital's reimbursement rate for services provided to BDCC
patients on a prospective basis and calculated based upon an established base
year. n21 For example, the 2003 rate was calculated according to each hospital's
claimed provision of BDCC services during base year 2001. Hospitals are notified
of the upcoming rates at least sixty days before the start of the year. n22

   New York Public Health Law 2807-k governs the general hospital indigent care
pool, n23 which allocates money to general hospitals for their BDCC needs
according to set rate tables. n24 The hospitals' needs are defined as losses
from bad debts reduced to cost (rather than a hospital's inflated "charge"
rate), and the costs of charity care provided by the hospital - excluding any
services given as an employment benefit or as a courtesy. n25 The hospitals are
not supposed to include the cost of services, other than emergency room visits,
which have been denied reimbursement by a third-party payer for lack of medical
necessity or for lack of compliance with prior authorization requirements. n26
It is important that the hospitals actually reduce their claims of bad debt and
charity care to cost because their charge rates are usually artificially
inflated negotiating tools for setting rates for third party payers, which never
actually have to pay the higher rates. n27 Nonetheless, as discussed below, most
hospitals apply these rates to their uninsured patients, who are the least
likely to be able to afford them. Because there is virtually no government
monitoring of the  [*10]  hospitals' reported BDCC submissions, it is unknown
whether the hospitals follow the State guidelines and reduce their charge rate
to cost when calculating the amount of BDCC they spend each year. n28

   Hospitals must comply with minimal reporting requirements established by the
DOH, which include monthly and annual reports detailing the amount of bad debt
and charity care provided by the hospital. n29 Also, if a hospital has an
obstetrical care unit, it must provide accessible prenatal care to the uninsured
in order to be eligible for funding. n30 However, there are no public or patient
notice requirements for BDCC money distribution or state regulations governing
the mechanism through which patients may have their accounts "relieved" by the
funding.

   B. Debt Collection - Who Receives These Funds in the Hospital?

 State law requires that New York's general hospitals must implement minimum
collection policies and procedures - approved by the Commissioner of Health - in
order to participate in the pool. n31 Neither state law nor regulations describe
what minimum collection practices are appropriate. Without proper regulations
and limits, this type of requirement has led to widespread use of aggressive
billing practices by hospitals - which include charging exorbitant interest
rates (9%), garnishing wages, and attaching liens to uninsured individuals'
homes. n32

   Most importantly, there is no corresponding requirement that hospitals have a
system to identify charity care patients and provide them notice about BDCC
funds. n33 Without such a system, or any eligibility guidelines, many patients
who could benefit from this funding  [*11]  stream are placed into collections
instead. n34 Because of the lack of a public notice requirement about BDCC
funding, uninsured and underinsured patients have no idea that BDCC funds even
exist. Under New York law, hospitals do not have to inform their patients that
charity funds are available, nor provide charity care in any specified amount or
form. n35 Indeed, the few hospital representatives surveyed by Legal Aid who
were aware of the funding conceded that it was used entirely as a way to offset
their bad debt, rather than to proactively provide for free or low-cost care.
n36 Neither the statutes nor the regulations provide any means to ensure that
the neediest patients receive or otherwise benefit from these funds. The lack of
any auditing procedures by the DOH contributes to the mystery of who actually
receives free or reduced cost care from any of these hospitals. n37

   Although many hospitals receive a significant amount of money from the pool,
n38 the receipt of these funds cannot be used in court as a patient's defense
when he or she is sued by a hospital for collection of fees incurred during the
stay. n39 It is entirely within the hospital's discretion whether to provide
care for free or to turn a patient over to a debt collection agency, regardless
of the patient's ability to pay and the hospital's receipt of BDCC funding every
year.

   C. Accountability

 In 1996, New York State hospitals reported that they had provided more than $
1.5 billion in bad debt and charity services to their patients, about twice as
much as they receive from the BDCC pool. n40  [*12]  The hospitals'
self-reported spending allocations included $ 391 million for inpatient bad
debt, $ 604 million for outpatient bad debt, $ 158 million for inpatient charity
care, and $ 393 million for outpatient charity care. n41 There is no requirement
that hospitals submit claim reports or any other authentication for their BDCC
numbers, although the DOH does have authority to conduct audits if it chooses to
do so. n42

   In his April 2003 report, The Health Care Reform Act (HCRA): The Need to
Restore Accountability to State Taxpayers, New York State Comptroller Alan
Hevesi admonished the administration of the HCRA, including management of the
BDCC pool, for being "off-budget" and therefore having little, if any,
accountability to the state or its taxpayers. n43 There is no independent
auditing or monitoring system in place to track hospitals' submissions or the
pool's administration. The BDCC pool is administered by the Excellus Health Plan
through a contract with New York State. n44 The revenue for this fund is
collected and distributed by Excellus - completely outside the purview of the
normal auditing and accounting procedures of the Office of the Comptroller. n45

   Because of this lack of official oversight, the State is unable to answer
even basic questions about how the pool's funds have been spent, such as:



    (1) How many patients have benefited from the BDCC pool?

   (2) Where do these patients live?

   (3) Which hospital served the largest number of charity care patients?

   (4) Which hospital provided the most charity care in dollars?

   (5) How many patients had bad debt written off?

   (6) How did each hospital spend its allocation of the BDCC pool funds?



    Arguably, hospitals in receipt of BDCC funds have an obligation to provide
accountability about these allocations - allocations stemming from the benefits
they acquire under New York law as non-profit hospitals. All twenty-two of the
hospitals that Legal Aid surveyed are "charitable" entities and receive
substantial financial benefits from the government, including immunity from
payment of federal, state and local taxes. n46 In exchange for these benefits,
the IRS has held that  [*13]  non-profit hospitals must prove that they give
care to the poor in order to retain their tax-exempt status. n47 Similarly, New
York State law requires hospitals to issue "Community Service Plans" to
"demonstrate" and "report" efforts to "provide charity care services and to
improve access to health care services by the underserved ... ." n48 Despite
these charitable obligations, however, Legal Aid's study revealed that few
hospitals responsibly allocate BDCC funds to the low-income uninsured and
underinsured patients they purport to serve.

   II.

 The Legal Aid Survey: How do these funds work?


   A. Methodology Used

 In an attempt to understand how this money is used by hospitals in New York
City, as well as to gather information on billing and pricing practices in order
to help the city's uninsured and underinsured population become better health
care consumers, Legal Aid staff and interns systematically surveyed twenty-two
New York City hospitals in the Summer of 2003. The twenty-two hospitals were
chosen so as to represent a diverse sampling of hospitals from all five
boroughs. Legal Aid compiled the results of the survey in a report entitled
State Secret: How Government Fails to Ensure that Uninsured and Underinsured
Patients Have Access to State Charity Funds, which is available to the public
through The Legal Aid Society's website. n49

   The investigation was comprised of five central components. First, surveyors
telephoned each hospital to determine what billing or payment information is
available to consumers over the phone. The ability to obtain such information in
an efficient manner by calling the hospital is important to all patients, but
especially to those who are sick and disabled. Our surveyors began the calls by
trying the hospital's general phone number. They would attempt to speak with
someone in the billing department who would be able to answer questions  [*14]
for an uninsured patient. n50 If the surveyor was able to reach an individual in
the billing office, she would then ask a standard set of questions about the
availability of sliding fee scales, charity care, and payment options (described
below). At least three phone calls were made to each hospital in an attempt to
receive answers to these questions.

   The second part of the survey involved site visits to each of the hospitals.
n51 Each surveyor used identical survey instruments, which included both a
visual inspection section as well as interview questions for hospital financial
staff. The visual survey required the surveyor to mark each time they located a
sign that displayed hospital policies involving payment options, such as the
existence of sliding fee scales, charity care funds, or the Patient Bill of
Rights. n52 It was also noted whether or not the signs were in languages other
than English.

   The site visits began at the main desk, where the surveyor would try to
locate the billing office. At each office, the Legal Aid staff person explained
what information she was looking for and always asked to speak with someone more
knowledgeable, such as a supervisor or manager.

   The surveyors asked the following questions: n53



    (1) Where does an individual uninsured or underinsured patient who has
difficulty paying a bill go for help if they are ineligible for Medicaid
assistance?

   (2) Is there a sliding fee scale program available? Does it apply to
inpatient services?

   (3) Are payment plan options available? What are their terms?

   (4) Are there any charity care programs for the uninsured? Does your hospital
have any "charity care" funds? Can a patient apply for your Bad Debt and Charity
Care funds? Describe the process, if any.

   (5) Are any of the financial assistance policies or guidelines written, and
are they available to the surveyor?

    [*15]  (6) Are there any financial requirements, such as a deposit, for an
uninsured patient to access non-emergency services, like an elective surgery?



    After the site visits, the surveyors followed up with additional phone calls
to individuals who had not been available during the site visit and with more
senior supervisors and managers in the various billing, patient accounts, and
financial services offices of each hospital.

   At any hospitals where financial staff had been unable or unwilling to
cooperate during the site visits, attempts were made by phone, fax, and email to
members of the hospital's public relations and/or central executive offices.
During these contacts the surveyor included more detailed information pertaining
to the nature of the study and the specific questions being asked. At least
three phone calls were made to each hospital during this follow-up period. n54

   Legal Aid staff members also made "secret shopper" phone calls to each
hospital to obtain information on "charge" rates for an uninsured patient's
overnight stay for elective surgery. n55 The caller asked for the rate exclusive
of charges such as the physician's fee or drug costs. This line of questioning
was made in the context of shopping around for a hospital in which to have a
hysterectomy, one of the most common elective surgeries. n56

   Finally, Legal Aid staff members tracked various low-income clients who were
either uninsured or underinsured and who had outstanding medical bills from one
of the surveyed hospitals. n57 None of these clients was eligible for Medicaid
at the time of hospitalization, but because of the size of the medical bills,
each is struggling under the weight of his or her debt. On their behalf, Legal
Aid staff members have sent letters and placed phone calls to the hospitals'
financial services directors to request that the individual hospitals' bad debt
and charity care funds be used towards these individuals' bills.

[*16]

   III.

 The Findings


   A. BDCC Funds are Not Available to Individual Uninsured and Underinsured
Patients

 Although collectively the twenty-two hospitals surveyed by Legal Aid receive
roughly $ 316 million dollars of bad debt and charity care compensation per
year, n58 the study found that not one seemed to use the funds to pay off the
accounts of uninsured and underinsured patients. As set forth above, the laws
that govern the administration of BDCC funds do not require hospitals to allow
patients to access these funds individually, but there is nothing in them to
prohibit such a distribution either. Instead, the hospitals routinely use the
funds to compensate themselves for bad debt accounts on the back end, while
still harassing their most needy uninsured patients through collection agencies.

   At each hospital, Legal Aid surveyors informed the financial representative
that our research indicated that the hospital received the relevant specific
amount of BDCC funds from New York State. The surveyors then asked the
representative several questions. First, they asked how a patient could access
these funds to help pay for his or her care. Second, they had a series of
questions prepared that would determine the eligibility rules that the hospitals
use to provide uninsured patients charity funds. n59 Finally, the surveyors
asked for a copy of the hospital's written policy governing the eligibility
criteria and how to apply for these BDCC funds.

   The survey revealed that none of the hospitals voluntarily makes BDCC funds
accessible to individual uninsured and underinsured patients through an
application process. n60 It also revealed that each of the hospitals' financial
staff is almost completely unaware of the existence  [*17]  of BDCC funds.
Instead, uninsured and underinsured patients are routinely charged the highest,
self-pay rates for hospital services (described in more detail below). n61

   At thirteen of the twenty-two hospitals surveyed, the patient accounts
representatives with whom our surveyors spoke were completely unaware that BDCC
funds existed. n62 Typical was the response by the associate director of
financial services at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital, that "there are no Bad Debt and
Charity Care Funds." n63 In fact, Bronx-Lebanon receives more than $ 22 million
BDCC funds each year. n64 Similarly, a credit and collections supervisor at SUNY
Downstate claimed that the hospital might have had charity care funds in the
past, "but not anymore," n65 even though SUNY Downstate receives nearly $ 6
million in yearly BDCC funds. n66

   Representatives at eight of the twenty-two hospitals were vaguely aware of
the BDCC funds, but they could not supply our surveyors with any policies that
outlined how these funds work or how to apply them to a patient's medical
expenses. n67 For example, the billing staff at Montefiore Medical Center -
which receives roughly $ 18 million in BDCC funds a year n68 - seemed to believe
that if this funding source did exist, it is only accessible with the permission
of senior management. n69 A representative of Cornell/NY Presbyterian - which
receives more than $ 60 million of BDCC per annum n70 - asserted that "there is
a fund" but "I can't tell you who it is from or how much it is" - nor could the
representative explain the hospital's policies, eligibility criteria or degree
of access to the funds for individual cases. n71

    [*18]  Only at Elmhurst Hospital, which is operated by New York City's
Health and Hospitals Corporation, was the staff aware that the BDCC funds are
intended for uninsured or underinsured patients. According to an Elmhurst
representative, the hospital uses BDCC funds to offer a sliding fee scale for
uninsured patients. n72 Despite this policy, even Elmhurst does not have a
specific mechanism other than the sliding fee scale to enable a needy patient to
apply for BDCC funds. n73

   In sum, the Legal Aid Society study revealed that, in the absence of
legislative or regulatory mandate, the New York hospital industry fails to
voluntarily provide meaningful access to the hundreds of millions of dollars in
BDCC funds it is allocated each year.

   B. Little Notice of Charges and Charity Care Provided to Patients

 Under New York State law, there is no legal requirement for a hospital to
disclose its billing and charge information to the public. n74 Most hospitals
take advantage of this fact by refusing to share even the most basic financial
information. This lack of relevant information makes it nearly impossible for a
health care consumer in New York to compare hospitals based on price - unlike
consumers in any other field. For example, when a New Yorker buys a car, by law
car dealers must disclose information pertinent to the sale to their customers,
such as the recommended manufacturer's list price and gas mileage.
Unfortunately, there are no similar consumer protections for hospital patients
and no laws to require hospitals to provide accurate information about charity
care, billing policies or payment plans.

   Even if most individuals do not think to compare hospitals before actually
needing one, or do not think of health care as a consumer-based commodity, this
information could be vital to advocacy groups, such as Legal Aid, in their work
on behalf of the uninsured. Also, if hospitals were forced to disclose this
information to the public, it would help legislators to understand where gaps
exist in financially accessible care. It might also be a catalyst for a more
consumer-friendly atmosphere at hospitals.

   As described below, in the absence of statutory patient protections,
hospitals routinely refuse to disclose information about their policies for the
uninsured and underinsured, billing rates and payment plans. Legal Aid surveyors
discovered almost immediately that an uninsured  [*19]  New York City patient
has a much harder time learning about New York City hospitals' policies for the
uninsured than a car shopper has in finding out the specifications of a car.

   Legal Aid's investigation was designed to approximate the experience of an
underinsured or uninsured New Yorker who attempts to find out hospital billing
and charge information over the phone and in person. The surveyors recorded
practical considerations such as: (1) the time required to obtain answers; (2)
whether a patient accounts department was easily accessible from the main
hospital building; and (3) the availability of assistance in languages other
than English. n75

   The amount of time and energy exerted by the surveyors just to find answers
to basic questions pertaining to a hospital's charges and billing practices was
far greater than could be expected to be endured by the average patient, let
alone a patient who was timid or unsophisticated or a patient with a serious
health problem or disability. Even the surveyors' significant dedication of time
and effort yielded little concrete information on some hospital's services
provided to uninsured and underinsured patients. Legal Aid graded each hospital
on how easy it was for a patient to receive this information: n76 seven
hospitals earned an A, six a B, three a C, two a D and four hospitals failed.
n77 The four hospitals that earned a failing grade refused to answer any of
Legal Aid's policy and practice questions. Two hospitals provided answers only
after Legal Aid contacted their public relations and/or executive offices. At
three hospitals, surveyors were forced to spend at least two hours, or had to
speak with more than five employees, before receiving answers to all of their
questions. At six, our surveyor was provided with the information within two
hours and spoke with five or fewer employees. Only at seven of the twenty-two
hospitals in the Legal Aid survey were our staff members able to get responses
to  [*20]  their questions within one hour and by consulting with three or fewer
employees. n78

   One serious consequence of a hospital's initial failure to respond to these
inquiries is that patients are forced to physically travel to their hospital to
learn about charity care, charges, billing, and payment options. At seven
hospitals, our surveyors discovered that the billing offices were located more
than a fifteen minute walk from the main hospital building. n79 Out-stationing
these offices results in considerable hardship for patients who are ill or who
have job and family obligations. Furthermore, once at the hospital, our
surveyors occasionally found financial staff and hospital administrators
unnecessarily bureaucratic, reluctant to respond, and sometimes rude. n80 This
is also a complaint often heard from low-income clients who have tried to settle
bills themselves before coming to Legal Aid for assistance. n81

   The Legal Aid surveyors also found that only three of the twenty-two
hospitals had posted signs that described programs for the uninsured or
underinsured. n82 Both on the phone and in person, the surveyors consistently
found it difficult to identify and locate the appropriate person with whom to
speak about billing and payment options for the uninsured and underinsured. For
example, at nine hospitals, employees assumed that a request for information on
behalf of the uninsured or underinsured should be referred to billing staff
responsible for Medicaid patients. n83 Our surveyors reported that even hospital
administrators often proposed Medicaid and Family Health Plus as complete
solutions to patients' financial difficulties, despite the fact that the Legal
[*21]  Aid surveyors explained that they sought information on behalf of
uninsured or underinsured patients who are not eligible for Medicaid. n84

   C. Hospitals' "Charge" Rates

 Another major reason that uninsured and underinsured patients incur
insurmountable medical debt is because hospitals routinely charge them higher
rates than patients who have insurance. They charge an uninsured patient, with
no bargaining power, what is termed a "self-pay" or "charge" rate. These base
rates for medical procedures are heavily discounted for powerful HMOs and
insurance companies that have the ability to negotiate with the hospitals, and
they are far above what the government pays on behalf of Medicare or Medicaid.
n85 They are often thought of as the rates charged to wealthy self-pay clients
who fly in from other countries for expensive treatments; unfortunately, they
are also the prices charged to low-income New Yorkers without health insurance
coverage.

   Legal Aid's clients have experienced firsthand the financial hardship
incurred by this practice. For example, in February 2003, a Legal Aid client's
teenage daughter woke up with terrible chest pains. Terrified, the family rushed
their daughter to St. Francis Hospital on Long Island. The Emergency Room doctor
determined that she had an extreme case of the flu and sent her home with Advil.
A few weeks later, the family received an "Explanation of Benefits" from their
HIP insurance plan denying St. Francis' $ 240 claim for the emergency room visit
on the ground that the daughter's health coverage had lapsed a month earlier. In
September 2003, the family received a bill from St. Francis' collection agency
for $ 1,310.50 - over a 500%  [*22]  markup from the rate the hospital had
originally charged the HIP insurance plan. n86

   In an effort to learn more systematically what deregulated prices or charge
rates hospitals quote to uninsured patients, Legal Aid surveyors called the
hospitals and asked how much an overnight stay for an elective surgery, such as
a hysterectomy, would cost. Surveyors explained to each hospital that they only
wanted the overnight stay charge, excluding all other charges, such as surgeons'
fees and anesthesia costs. The responses received from the hospitals'
pre-admitting staff varied widely; the price quotes ranged from $ 1,100 at Mary
Immaculate to $ 11,422 at the NYU Medical Center. n87 In contrast, commercial
insurers pay a "per diem" rate between $ 800 and $ 1,400 for such a stay,
depending on the hospital and its location. n88 The wide disparity in hospital
prices for the uninsured reminds us that health care consumers must be given
easy access to this type of billing information, especially since many uninsured
patients chose to forego medical care rather than pay such steep self-pay rates.
n89 Accordingly, Legal Aid's investigation next examined how uninsured and
underinsured patients apply for sliding fee discounts and other payment plans
for medically necessary inpatient stays.

   D. Sliding Fee Scales

 Some hospitals offer a discounted fee schedule to low-income uninsured or
underinsured patients. This fee schedule is usually called a "sliding fee"
scale. New York City's public hospital system, the  [*23]  Health and Hospitals
Corporation ("HHC"), has long made its sliding fee scale program available to
its uninsured and underinsured patients. n90 The latest HHC fee schedule applies
a discount based upon the uninsured patient's family size and income. n91
However, there is no state law that requires the non-profit private and
voluntary hospitals to disclose their sliding fee scale and other reduced
payment programs.

   The availability of sliding fee scales in the health care context is
important given the inexorable rise in the number of uninsured and underinsured
patients who cannot afford medical treatments. Sliding fee scales are
particularly valuable for inpatient, non-emergency treatment. Although many such
treatments, such as chemotherapy for cancer patients, are considered elective as
opposed to emergency services, they often include procedures that can
significantly reduce pain and suffering and decrease the chance of death. These
procedures are generally far more expensive than clinic services, and rates
routinely climb into the tens of thousands of dollars.

   Although most of the twenty-two hospitals surveyed in the Legal Aid study
have certified to the New York State Department of Health that they make some
services available to low-income uninsured patients, n92 our surveyors
discovered that these vague certifications fail to guarantee affordable care to
uninsured or underinsured patients. At St. John's Hospital and the NYU Medical
Center, the billing staff told our surveyors that the hospital did not offer a
sliding fee scale program. Three other hospitals did not respond to Legal Aid's
requests for information about sliding fee scale policies for the uninsured. n93
Although seventeen hospitals claimed to have sliding fee programs,  [*24]  only
three actually apply these programs to inpatient bills - where discounts are
most needed. n94

   Very few hospitals had written fee scale policies to aid financial staff in
determining eligibility requirements. Only four out of the twenty-two hospitals
surveyed had written policies that were available to the public. n95 The
majority of the hospitals would not voluntarily provide Legal Aid with copies of
their sliding fee policies, if there even were any. When a surveyor asked to see
a copy of the sliding fee scale policy at Cabrini Medical Center, she was told
that "this is a hospital ... we can't give out that information." Staff at
Jamaica Medical Center said no because "they are hospital documents." n96 By
contrast, the Health and Hospital Corporations hospitals (the Legal Aid study
included only one HHC hospital: Elmhurst) routinely make their sliding fee scale
programs known and information about them available in pamphlets distributed in
the hospitals' billing offices.

   E. Payment Plans

 Legal Aid surveyors also found that several of the hospitals in the study
offered onerous payment plans before patients are even admitted for treatment.
For example, at eight of the twenty-two hospitals surveyed, uninsured patients
are regularly asked to pay 100 percent of their anticipated bill prior to
admission. n97 Lenox Hill Hospital revealed that their policy is to demand $
6,000 up front, with the possibility for a reduction to $ 3,000. n98 Similarly,
Columbia/NY Presbyterian requires a sixty percent deposit and the NYU Medical
Center requires a fifty percent deposit prior to admission. n99 The
inflexibility of most plans is likely to deter patients from seeking treatment
for a serious condition as well as cause considerable financial hardship. n100

    [*25]  Most of the hospitals Legal Aid surveyed offer more than one payment
option and claim to consider income, bill amount, or the size of a patient's
household when establishing a payment plan. But the cumulative impact of the
hospitals' imposition of charge rates, up-front payment demands, stringent time
limits, and woefully inadequate discounts demonstrate that payment plans are
remarkably unrealistic for uninsured and underinsured patients who might seek
inpatient care.

   Should an uninsured patient be fortunate enough to be admitted without a
deposit (usually through the emergency room), many hospitals have unrealistic
post-treatment payment plans. At least six of the twenty-two hospitals allow
discounts - almost always capped at twenty percent - off the total bill only if
a patient is able to pay the whole bill, or a large percentage, up front. n101
Uninsured or underinsured patients are unlikely to be able to satisfy either of
these two conditions; they typically receive large bills, and their annual
income is often less than eighty percent of what they owe. In contrast, Elmhurst
Hospital, a New York City public hospital, requires only a minimum deposit of $
200 with the remainder determined according to a patient's income. n102 Many
hospitals also place inflexible limits on the amount of time a patient has to
pay the bill, usually less than one year - only five are more flexible, or
permit longer payment periods. n103

   F. Collection Agencies

 The New York State BDCC statute explicitly encourages hospitals to vigorously
pursue uninsured and underinsured patients. n104 Accordingly, hospitals
regularly refer their overdue bills to collection agencies. Some hospitals do
this on a routine basis, such as after a bill remains unpaid for a certain
amount of time (often between sixty days and one year). Direct referrals to
collection agencies are generally made without any inquiry into a patient's
financial circumstances because, as the Patient Accounts Manager at Beth Israel
Medical Center claimed, "the patient can tell us anything [about his or her
financial  [*26]  status]. There is no way for us to verify their story. That's
why we refer them to collection agencies." n105

   If a patient notifies Brookdale Hospital that he or she is having trouble
paying the amount owed, the hospital brings that patient in for what it calls an
"interrogation" to identify what amount the patient can afford to pay. n106 At
Jamaica Hospital, however, the staff refuses to even negotiate payment plans.
Instead, patients are referred to a collection agency in order to negotiate
payment options when they are unable to pay the full amount. n107

   Research reports and academic articles describe how medical facilities'
inflexible payment plans and reluctance to negotiate with patients early in the
billing process unnecessarily subject the uninsured and underinsured to
aggressive pursuit by creditors, ruined credit, and personal bankruptcy filings.
n108 One recent study found that nearly half of all bankruptcies were filed for
a medical reason or for medical debt, and more than 500,000 middle class
families turned to the bankruptcy courts for help following an illness or injury
in 1999. n109 This study also revealed that vulnerable groups, such as
female-headed households n110 and the elderly, n111 were even more likely to
experience a health-related bankruptcy. Tellingly, many of these families were
not uninsured, but only underinsured - nearly eighty percent had some form of
basic health insurance. n112

[*27]

   IV.

 Reactions


   A. Legal Aid's Recommendations

 Based on its extensive findings, The Legal Aid Society proposed the following
recommendations to New York's legislature: n113



    New York policy makers should transform the BDCC funding stream and make
these funds accountable along the lines adopted by our neighboring states.

   (1) Enact a statute to establish a simple, uniform statewide application and
eligibility process for hospitals to use to administer free care and sliding fee
programs based upon standardized income guidelines. This process should be
simple to administer and non-bureaucratic.

   (2) Require hospitals to notify patients of the availability of charity care
funds, sliding fees and other payment policies whenever the hospitals seek
payment, i.e., prior to admission and/or at post-discharge billing. Require
posting of signs and booklets regarding these policies in inpatient accounts
departments.

   (3) Require hospitals to charge uninsured and underinsured families the
lowest, not the highest, rates - the Medicaid rate, for example.

   (4) Require hospitals to follow fair and standardized collection practices.

   (5) Enact legislation to immunize low-income families who are income-eligible
for public insurance coverage from suit by hospitals that receive BDCC funds.

   (6) Establish an appropriate auditing system of BDCC funds which: (a)
accounts for the number of uninsured patients served through the funding
mechanism; (b) rewards hospitals which serve larger numbers of uninsured with
increased BDCC funding; and (c) ensures that patients' accounts are credited if
funds are provided for their care, i.e., they are not also put into collections.



    Should these recommendations be implemented, The Legal Aid Society argues,
health advocacy groups would not only support the BDCC program, but urge for its
expansion. However, without meaningful improvements in the BDCC pool's
administration, Legal Aid and other advocates have urged lawmakers to consider
other concrete alternatives - such as expanding insurance access - that are
meaningful to the uninsured patients these programs are purportedly designed to
serve. For example, the $ 847 million in BDCC funds each year  [*28]  could be
used to fully insure an additional 227,000 low income New Yorkers through the
State's Family Health Plus program. n114

   B. The American Hospital Association's Reaction and Advocates' Response

 Confronted with various advocacy reports, press accounts, the recent
congressional investigation into the billing practices of hospitals nationwide,
and other forms of public pressure, the American Hospital Association (AHA)
asserted in December 2003 that the Medicare statute prohibits hospitals from
using less aggressive collection tactics on low-income uninsured families. n115
It wrote a letter to Tommy Thompson, head of the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, in which the trade group claimed that the Medicare regulations
"make it far too difficult and frustrating" to reduce prices for their uninsured
patients. n116

   But as a rule, the Medicare program does not review a hospital's self-pay
charge in order to establish Medicare rates. n117 Generally, Medicare
rate-setting is not based on an "average" of other payers' charges or rates.
Rather, rates are typically based on a calculation of local wage and consumer
price adjustments. n118 For example, Medicare calculates its reimbursement rates
for an acute hospitalization as follows: First, the government sets Diagnosis
Related Groups (DRGs), which capture the relative intensity of an individual
health encounter or hospitalization. Second, once the DRG is assigned to the
patient, the actual reimbursement varies by hospital and depends on such factors
as geographic location, teaching status, and proportion of low-income patients.
n119

    [*29]  Furthermore, Medicare explicitly permits hospitals to provide "free
care or care at a reduced charge to patients who are determined to be
financially indigent." n120 The federal government's Medicare Provider Manual
describes a simple mechanism for hospitals to follow "to assure that the
provisions of such free care or care at a reduced rate will not affect the
acceptance of the provider's established charge schedule as customary." n121

   Federal law does prohibit providers from billing Medicare beneficiaries a
higher charge than non-Medicare beneficiaries. n122 But the purpose of this
prohibition is to avoid excess charges to government-sponsored health programs,
thereby avoiding government subsidization of commercial insurance payers. It is
not intended to regulate hospital billing of uninsured patients. As the Medicare
Provider Manual notes, "it is the intent of the law that the Medicare program
shall reimburse no more than a private payment patient would be asked to pay,
even if there is only one 'patient liable for payment on a charge basis.'" n123

   Accordingly, "setting uniform prices is not the same as receiving uniform
reimbursements." n124 Hospitals routinely negotiate steep discounts for
commercial insurers. Federal law does not bar New York's non-profit hospitals
from negotiating steep discounts with the uninsured. In fact, in early-and
mid-2003, for-profit hospitals, such as Hospital Corporation of America (HCA)
and Tenet Healthcare Corporation, announced reduced rates for their uninsured
patients. n125

   In addition, the fact that the hospitals routinely charge their privately
insured patients less than their customary charges is now under serious scrutiny
not only by the media and Legal Aid, but also by the  [*30]  federal government.
Indeed, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector
General recently proposed regulations which seek to remedy this system and
explained that it was concerned that hospitals are "simply overcharging
Medicare." n126 The regulations would require hospitals to include "negotiated
rates" with managed care companies when they calculate their "usual charges."
n127

   The new rule also provides important protections for the uninsured.
Specifically, it proposes to not include in the hospital "usual charge"
calculation "charges for services provided to uninsured patients free of charge
or at a substantially reduced rate ... ." n128

   C. The Federal Government Weighs In on the Side of the Uninsured

 In February 2004, Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson responded
to this debate and to the American Hospital Association's demand for specific
guidance by stating that "nothing should stop the industry from taking steps to
offer discounts to the uninsured" and that hospitals are not required "to engage
in any specific level of collection effort for Medicare or non-Medicare
patients." n129 Although the Medicare statute requires providers to make a
"reasonable collection effort" to pursue debts, the Medicare Provider
Reimbursement Manual clearly sets forth a mechanism whereby a provider can
determine that a patient is "indigent" or "medically indigent." n130 Once an
individual is judged "indigent" for this purpose, that person's "debt may be
deemed uncollectible" and the hospital is not required to pursue standard debt
collection practices. n131

[*31]

   D. HANYS Guidelines

 The Healthcare Association of New York State (HANYS), the trade group that
represents the state's 230 not-for-profit hospitals, recently responded to the
increased national scrutiny, calls for reform by the Legal Aid study, and the
presence of several reform bills in Albany. n132 It proposed voluntary
guidelines for its member hospitals that would offer immediate price reductions
to patients with incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty level
(currently around $ 9,300 a year). n133 HANYS also urged its hospitals to
provide other valuable discounts to individuals and families with incomes above
that level. The guidelines suggest that hospitals should discontinue their
practices of charging the uninsured higher prices than HMOs, insurers, and the
government (through Medicare and Medicaid). n134

   The trade group also addressed the practice of aggressive collections by
specifically discouraging hospitals from forcing home foreclosures or using
"body attachments," a practice whereby patients are actually arrested and jailed
for failing to show at medical debt related court appearances. n135 However,
even under these voluntary guidelines, hospitals are still able to charge
interest, garnish wages, place patients into collection actions, and put liens
on individuals' homes. n136

   V.

 Conclusion: How Can the Uninsured Be Good Health Care Consumers?

 New York City is a self-touted "medical Mecca." But for the uninsured and the
underinsured, securing access to affordable care is confusing, frustrating, and
uncertain - in short, it is an exercise in futility.  [*32]  For example,
uninsured patients are routinely asked to pay more than their annual income in
advance of treatment. Unlike consumers who are shopping for cars, uninsured and
underinsured health consumers have few consumer protections when they confront a
medical crisis. They are often left without practical information necessary to
obtain care at a manageable cost.

   Caring for uninsured and underinsured patients imposes financial difficulties
for hospitals that provide treatment to people in need. n137 Nonetheless, under
the State Health Department's supervision, New York hospitals administer
billions of dollars of "off budget" government health spending, purportedly to
benefit low-income patients, through a variety of funding pools, including the
BDCC pool, with virtually little or no oversight. n138

   But from the patient's perspective, New York's BDCC funds are totally
ineffective in their intended purpose of providing care for the uninsured and
underinsured. Our study shows that all twenty-two hospitals we approached fail
to establish voluntary policies for the administration of these funds to the
patients they are designed to assist.

   New York's program, thus, stands in sharp contrast to our neighboring states.
Connecticut, New Jersey, and Massachusetts have all established legal frameworks
that ensure that their version of these funds are actually made available to
low-income uninsured and underinsured patients. Each of our neighboring states
requires hospitals that receive Charity Care funds to provide notice to their
patients about the existence of the funds and to establish specific eligibility
criteria for individual patients. n139

   The difficulties experienced by Legal Aid surveyors in accessing information
about hospital charges and billing practices for uninsured or underinsured
patients suggest the harsh reality that affordable care is largely unavailable
for this group. More broadly, these results indicate that it is almost
impossible for poor patients to become informed health care consumers. Instead,
they are left to seek out information  [*33]  on sliding fee scales and payment
plans that is not readily available, or to work out an unfeasible repayment
schedule after collection agencies have pursued them.

   In light of the public outcry, a three-stage response to caring for the
uninsured and underinsured at hospitals is necessary. First, the onus now lies
upon the hospital industry to justify the use of the nearly billion dollars in
annual BDCC funds by: (1) making BDCC fund information accessible to these
patients; (2) improving payment options; and (3) decreasing the rates charged to
the uninsured. Second, the State Department of Health must assert its regulatory
authority and demand accountability and transparency for the BDCC pools it has
the responsibility to administer. Third, the State legislature should follow the
lead of our neighboring states and establish a more just and equitable system of
BDCC funding for the uninsured. Currently, three such bills are under
consideration in the State Assembly. Sponsored by Assemblyman Grannis and
several other Assembly members, these bills would require hospitals who received
BDCC funds to report the number of uninsured or underinsured patients were
served by these funds, establish uniform standards and procedures for the
provision of financial assistance to low-and middle-income patients without
health insurance, and adopt reasonable policies and procedures to charge and
collect payments from low-and middle-income patients that take into account
their ability to pay. n140

   Absent meaningful legislative reform, New York State's generous allocation of
charity care funding to hospitals that purport to serve uninsured and
underinsured patients will continue to be a billion-dollar allocation in name
only.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Business & Corporate LawNonprofit Corporations & OrganizationsGeneral
OverviewGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsFinancePublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicaidProvidersPayments & ReimbursementsHospitals

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See Lucette Lagnado, Hospitals Will Give Price Breaks to Uninsured, if
Medicare Agrees, Wall St. J., Dec. 17, 2003, at A1 [hereinafter Lagnado,
Hospitals] (stating "under pressure from lawmakers and consumer advocates, the
hospital industry said it would consider making broad price cuts for the
uninsured ... ."); Henry J. Kaiser Family Found., New York: Population
Distribution by Insurance Status, State Data 2001-2002, U.S. 2002 (2002), at
http://www.statehealthfacts. kff.org (last visited Sept. 27, 2004).





n2.  Danielle Holahan et al., United Hospital Fund, Health Insurance Coverage in
New York, 2002 34 tbl.2 (2004), http://www.uhfnyc.org/usr doc/chartbook
2004.pdf.





n3.  See Lagnado, Hospitals, supra note 1 (noting that "adding to the problem
for the uninsured, many hospitals have become more aggressive in seeking payment
of these bills. Hospitals have placed liens on debtors' homes, garnished wages,
seized bank accounts and, in some cases, sought the arrest of debtors who miss
court dates, a practice known in some states as 'body attachment.'").





n4.  The Legal Aid Society is the nation's oldest and largest legal services
provider. The Legal Aid Society's Health Law Unit provides health care advice
and representation to thousands of health care consumers, community based
organizations and providers each year through a Health Law Hotline. More
information can be found at www.legal-aid.org, and a copy of the survey
discussed in this article - State Secret: How Government Fails to Ensure that
Uninsured and Underinsured Patients Have Access to State Charity Funds - can be
found at http://www.legal-aid.org/Uploads/ BDCCReport.pdf. This article's
authors were lead authors of the survey. Elisabeth Benjamin, MSPH, JD, is the
Director of the Health Law Unit at the Legal Aid Society and Kat Gabriesheski,
JD, was a 2003 Summer Intern.





n5.  N.Y. State Dep't of Health, Indigent Care Pool Distributions (2003)
(spreadsheet on file with The Legal Aid Society's Health Law Unit) [hereinafter
Indigent Care Pool].





n6.  The twenty-two hospitals surveyed were: Beth Israel, Bronx-Lebanon,
Brookdale, Cabrini, Columbia/NY Presbyterian, Cornell/NY Presbyterian, Elmhurst,
Flushing, Jamaica, Lenox Hill, Maimonides, Mary Immaculate, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering, Montefiore, Mount Sinai, NY Methodist, NYU Med. Ctr., St.
John's, St. Luke's, St. Vincent's Manhattan, St. Vincent's Staten Island, and
SUNY Downstate. See Legal Aid Society, State Secret: How Government Fails to
Ensure that Uninsured and Underinsured Patients Have Access to State Charity
Funds 19 (2003), http://www.legal-aid.org/Uploads/BDCCReport.pdf [hereinafter
State Secret].





n7.  See Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5, at 19. A similar study was completed
in the summer of 2000 by the Long Island Health Access Monitoring Project. See
Long Island Health Access Monitoring Project, Long Island Coalition for a
National Health Plan, Hospital Community Benefits and Free Care Programs: An
Initial Study of Seven Long Island Hospitals iii (2001) (stating that study's
"overall objective was to determine what local hospitals say and do about
community benefits and free care for the uninsured"),
http://www.communitycatalyst. org/acrobat/NY-7-hosp-pilot.pdf.





n8.  New Jersey and Massachusetts also have "charity care" pools but provide a
greater nexus between the funds and individual patient accounts via generalized
applications and eligibility requirements. See N.J. Admin. Code tit. 10,
10.52-11.5 (2004); Mass. Regs. Code tit. 14.6, 10.03, 10.04 (2004).





n9.  See discussion infra Part III.B. See also Lagnado, Hospitals, supra note 1
(noting that "at the heart of the issue is the hospitals' common practice of
charging full listed prices").





n10.  See Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5, at 19.





n11. " Bad debt" typically refers to the failure to collect from bills issued
either directly to patients or to third-party insurers. State Secret, supra note
6, at 14.





n12. " Charity care" typically refers to free or low-cost care based on
financial need. See id.





n13.  See St. Joseph's Hosp. Health Ctr. v. Dep't of Health of N.Y., 677
N.Y.S.2d 194, 197 (4th Dep't 1998).





n14.  Christine S. Spencer, Do Uncompensated Care Pools Change the Distribution
of Hospital Care to the Uninsured?, 23 J. Health Pol. Pol'y & L. 53, 54, 70
(1998) (arguing funding pool largely unsuccessful at meeting redistribution
goals). See also N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807 (McKinney 2003). The most relevant
regulations adopted pursuant to these statutes are N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs.
tit. 10, 86-1.11, 86-1.65 (1995-1999).





n15.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807-a(8)(e) (McKinney 2002).





n16.  Id. "Major public general hospital" means all state-run hospitals, those
run by the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, and all other public
general hospitals with annual inpatient operating costs of over twenty-five
million dollars. Id. 2807-k(1)(a).





n17.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2808-c(1) (McKinney 2002).





n18.  Letter from Richard Pellegrini, Director, Bureau of Financial Management &
Information Support, (Nov. 4, 1996), at
http://www.health.state.ny.us/nysdoh/hcra/ main.htm.





n19.  Jerry Geisel, New York Extends, Raises Hospital Bill Surcharge, Bus. Ins.,
June 23, 2003, at 3. The recent budget extension of HCRA also raised the
hospital surcharge, which is added to patient accounts to help fund the indigent
care pool, to 8.85%, up from 8.18%. Id.





n20.  Pub. Pol'y Inst. of N.Y. State, Inc., Misguided Money: A Reexamination of
the $ 2.6 Billion in Subsidies Provided by Taxpayers and Insurance Surcharges to
Help Finance New York's Medical Institutions 3 (1998),
http://www.bcnys.org/ppi/misgd3.htm (last visited Sept. 27, 2004).





n21.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807(7) (McKinney 2002).





n22.  See St. Joseph's Hosp. Health Ctr. v. Dep't of Health of N.Y., 677
N.Y.S.2d 194, 199 (4th Dep't 1998).





n23.  This statute encompasses major general hospitals, which consist of all
public hospitals run by the state, hospitals operated by the New York City
Health and Hospitals Corporation (HHC), and those with over $ 25 million in
annual inpatient operating costs. N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807-k(1)(a) (McKinney
2002).





n24.  Id. 2807-k(3)-(5).





n25.  Id. 2807-k(1)(d).





n26.  Id. 2807-k(1)(e).





n27.  Lucette Lagnado, A Young Woman, an Appendectomy, and a $ 19,000 Debt, Wall
St. J., Mar. 17, 2003, at A1 (stating that "most major U.S. hospitals are
required to set official 'charges' for their services, but then agree to
discount or even ignore those charges when getting paid by big institutions such
as insurance companies or the government.") [hereinafter Lagnado, A Young
Woman].





n28.  See Alan G. Hevesi, Office of the State Comptroller, New York State, The
Health Care Reform Act (HCRA): The Need to Restore Accountability to State
Taxpayers 17 (2003), http://www.osc.state.ny.us/press/releases/apr03/ HCRA.pdf
(last visited Oct. 28, 2004).





n29.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807-k(9) (McKinney 2002).





n30.  Id. 2807-k(10), 2807-c(16)(e); N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 10,
86-1.65(j)(2) (Supp. 2004).





n31.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807-k(9) (McKinney 2002). This is similar to
requirements in the Medicare law, which are discussed in Part V infra.





n32.  See, e.g, Alison Leigh Cowan, Yale Hospital Plans to Halt Foreclosure for
Bill Collection, N.Y. Times, May 9, 2003, at B2. Legal Aid's Health Law Unit has
assisted low-income uninsured and underinsured patients who have been subjected
to all of these practices and more.





n33.  Mary Sisson, NY System Strands Charity Patients, Crain's N.Y. Bus., Nov.
10-16, 2003, at 1 ("But unlike other states that provide charity care funding,
New York state has set up its system so that the money goes directly to
hospitals. As a result, people who need free or discounted care - those without
insurance, money or access to Medicaid - often end up with huge bills.").





n34.  See id. (noting that when hospitals receive their BDCC reimbursement, they
are not required to credit the accounts of patients who cannot pay).





n35.  Margaret Ramirez, Sick Feeling Over Costs, Newsday, Nov. 3, 2003, at A12
(stating that "Patricia J. Wang, senior vice president of finance for the
Greater New York Hospital Association, said patients are not notified about
charity funds because the money isn't available to individuals.").





n36.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 22-23.





n37.  See Hevesi, supra note 28, at 17.





n38.  In 2000, New York hospitals received a total of $ 765 million dollars for
the BDCC pool, with $ 156 million going to public hospitals, $ 546 million to
all voluntary hospitals, $ 36 million to high-need hospitals and $ 27 million to
Supplemental Indigent Care Distributions, which goes to teaching hospitals with
BDCC needs. Manatt, Phelps and Philips, Breakdown of Allocations under the New
York State Health Care Reform Act of 2000 Table I (2002) (on file with The Legal
Aid Society Health Law Unit).





n39.  N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2807-k(14) (McKinney 2003) (stating that a hospital's
receipt of BDCC funds "shall not be admissible as a defense, offset or reduction
in any action or proceeding relating to any bill or claim for amounts due for
hospital services provided").





n40.  Pub. Pol'y Inst. of N.Y. State, Inc., supra note 20, at 3.





n41.  Id.





n42.  Id.





n43.  Hevesi, supra note 28, at 2.





n44.  Id. at 1.





n45.  Id.





n46.  New York State does not allow for-profit hospitals. See N.Y. Pub. Health
Law 2801-a(1) (McKinney 2003). Nonprofit hospitals are exempt from taxation. See
Alice A. Noble et al., Charitable Hospital Accountability: A Review and Analysis
of Legal and Policy Initiatives, 26 J.L. Med. & Ethics 116, 116 (1998); Kevin M.
Wood, Legislatively-Mandated Charity Care for Nonprofit Hospitals: Does
Government Intervention Make Any Difference?, 20 Rev. Litig. 709, 710-11
(2000-2001) (noting, however, that "society now perceives very little difference
between nonprofit and for-profit hospitals").





n47.  Hospitals Must Show It Serves Indigent for Exemption, LEXSTAT 2001 TNT
48-45 (Feb. 5, 2001).





n48.  N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2803-l (McKinney 2002).





n49.  State Secret, supra note 6.





n50.  Different hospitals had different terms for their departments, such as
patient accounts, billing, finances, collections, payment offices, etc. For
convenience, we will refer to any office where a patient might get information
about a potential bill as a "billing office."





n51.  A copy of the on-site survey instrument is attached as Appendix A to the
report. See State Secret, supra note 6, App. A.





n52.  The New York State Hospital Patients' Bill of Rights offers no statutory
or regulatory protections for New York State health consumers when they seek
care in the hospital. See N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 10, 405.7 (2001).





n53.  State Secret, supra note 6, at App. A. This information was confirmed by
the hospital's admitting or pre-admitting offices.





n54.  Id. at 18.





n55.  Id.





n56.  Hysterectomies are the second most commonly performed surgical procedures
for women of reproductive age in the United States. See, e.g., Homa Keshavarz et
al., Hysterectomy Surveillance - United States, 1994-1999, Morbidity & Mortality
Weekly Rep., July 12, 2002, at 1, http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/PDF/SS/SS5105.pdf.





n57.  One such uninsured client's story was profiled in The Wall Street Journal
last year. Rebekah Nix, a twenty-five-year-old magazine intern, was charged $
14,000 - the highest "self-pay" rate - by New York Methodist Hospital after an
emergency appendectomy landed her in the hospital for two days. Lagnado, A Young
Woman, supra note 27. In contrast, Methodist Hospital charges insurers
substantially less for a hospital stay for the same services; commercial HMOs
are billed at about $ 2,500, Medicaid is billed at about $ 5,000, and Medicare
is billed at about $ 7,800. Id.





n58.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n59.  Criteria that we presumed relevant for determining eligibility for State
BDCC funds included an assessment of the patient's family income and resources,
the number of people in the patient's household, the size of the patient's
medical bill, proof that the patient had been rejected from Medicaid or another
public insurance program, the gravity of the patient's medical condition,
whether it was a repeat or one-time-only patient, and proof of the patient's
uninsured status. However, none of the hospitals we surveyed used these or any
other criteria for the allocation of charity care.





n60.  Lenox Hill's attorneys - through written answers provided to their public
relations staff - claimed to have a charity care fund from "private donors"
available for "a patient who demonstrates need." However, Lenox Hill would not
disclose the criteria for accessing these funds, if any, and would not provide
us a copy of their application for its "private" charity care program. Fax and
email to Lenox Hill legal counsel (July 31, 2003) (on file with Legal Aid
Society Health Law Unit).





n61.  The Public Policy and Education Fund awarded "F" grades to all twenty-six
New York City hospitals for their failure to provide publicly available free or
charity care policies in response to their phone survey. Pub. Pol'y & Ed. Fund
of N.Y., Hospital Free Care: Can New Yorkers Access Hospital Services Paid for
by Our Tax Dollars? 21-24 (2003), at http://www.citizenactionny.org/reports/
Hospital Free Care Report Final.pdf.





n62.  These hospitals were Beth Israel, Bronx-Lebanon, Lenox Hill, Maimonides,
Mary Immaculate, Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Montefiore, Mount Sinai, NYU Med.
Ctr., St. John's, St. Vincent's Manhattan, St. Vincent's Staten Island, and SUNY
Downstate. See State Secret, supra note 6, at 21.





n63.  Id.





n64.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n65.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 22.





n66.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n67.  These hospitals were Brookdale, Cabrini, Cornell/NY Presbyterian,
Elmhurst, Flushing, Jamaica, NY Methodist, and St. Luke's. State Secret, supra
note 6, at 22.





n68.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n69.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 22.





n70.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n71.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 22.





n72.  Id.





n73.  Id.





n74.  See N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2807-k, -w (McKinney 2002); N.Y. Comp. Codes R. &
Regs. tit. 10, 400.18 (Supp. 2004).





n75.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 25.





n76.  Hospitals that answered the questions within one hour and after speaking
with one to three people received an "A"; hospitals that took between one to two
hours after querying less than five staff persons received a "B"; hospitals that
took more than two hours and required querying more than five staff persons
received a "C"; hospitals that would only answer our questions after we
contacted public relations staff or their executive offices received a "D"; and
hospitals which refused to cooperate received an "F." State Secret, supra note
6, at 26.





n77.  Columbia/NY Presbyterian, Jamaica, St. Luke's, Montefiore, NYU Med. Ctr.,
St. Vincent's Staten Island, and SUNY Downstate received an "A." Beth Israel,
Bronx-Lebanon, Cabrini, Elmhurst, Flushing, and St. John's received a "B."
Brookdale, Cornell/NY Presbyterian, and Mt. Sinai received a "C." Lenox Hill and
NY Methodist received a "D." Maimonides, Mary Immaculate, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering, and St. Vincent's Manhattan received an "F." Id.





n78.  Id. at 27.





n79.  This information is based on surveyor reports from Beth Israel, Brookdale,
Cornell/NY Presbyterian, Lenox Hill, Mary Immaculate, Mount Sinai, and St.
Luke's Roosevelt. Id.





n80.  At two hospitals - Cornell/NY Presbyterian and Maimonides - the patient
accounts representatives claimed that they could not answer general billing
questions because of HIPAA (the federal law that protects patient privacy). Id.
at 27 n.62. This response represents a gross misinterpretation of the law; HIPAA
protects patients' health information, not hospitals' general policies. See
Press Release, United States Department of Health and Human Services, Fact
Sheet: Protecting the Privacy of Patients' Health Information (Apr. 14, 2003),
http://www.hhs.gov/news/facts/privacy. html (last visited Oct. 27, 2004).





n81.  See Ramirez, supra note 35 (noting that "although Guzman tried negotiating
with hospital officials to work out a reasonable payment plan after being
treated last September, Mount Sinai officials balked at working something out").





n82.  Only St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan posted information about federal
charity care funds, and only Mount Sinai and Bronx-Lebanon posted information
about their sliding fee scale programs. State Secret, supra note 6, at 28.





n83.  These hospitals were Beth Israel, Brookdale, Cornell/NY Presbyterian,
Jamaica, Maimonides, Mary Immaculate, St. John's, St. Luke's, and SUNY
Downstate. Id. at 28 & n.65.





n84.  Id. Medicaid eligibility in New York is restricted to those individuals
with an annual income of $ 7,908 and asset limits of $ 3,950. There are some
instances where individuals may be eligible to "spend down" excess income on
medical bills in order to qualify. However, these income limits are extremely
low, and many individuals who cannot afford to buy health insurance do not
qualify. See New York State Department of Health, Info for Consumers: Need Help
Paying for Medical Care?, at
http://www.health.state.ny.us/nysdoh/medicaid/mainmedicaid.htm (last modified
Aug. 2004). As for New York's Family Health Plus low-cost insurance program,
there is no retroactive eligibility. Therefore, should an individual be found
eligible after incurring medical expenses, Family Health Plus would not help pay
for those bills. See New York State Department of Health, Info for Consumers:
Family Health Plus: What Will Happen When I Apply?, at
http://www.health.state.ny.us/nysdoh/fhplus/ what will happen.htm (last modified
Aug. 2004).





n85.  See Lagnado, A Young Woman, supra note 27.





n86.  This example is based on Legal Aid's interview with the family, a review
of their bills and confirmation of their charges with hospital representatives.





n87.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 31. Kat Gabriesheski, this article's
co-author and one of Legal Aid's surveyors, called the NYU Medical Center on
July 17, 2003, and received a quote of $ 11,422. Because NYU's rate quote was an
outlier compared with the other hospitals' quoted "charge rates," Ms.
Gabriesheski called again on a later date for verification. This time, however,
the pre-admitting office refused to provide any information because, it was
claimed, a patient must be "in the system to receive this information." Thus,
NYU could have been listed as either the most expensive hospital of the
twenty-two surveyed or the only hospital that refused to provide a rate quote
for the requested overnight surgical stay. Id.





n88.  The Medicare program pays $ 1,101.75 for a hysterectomy performed in
Manhattan. This rate includes the doctor's fees and the hospital costs. See Am.
Med. Ass'n, at http://www.webstore.ama-assn.org/search/cptlookup (CPT code
58150) (last visited May 5, 2004).





n89.  See Lisa Duchon et al., The Commonwealth Fund, Security Matters: How
Instability in Health Insurance Puts U.S. Workers at Risk viii (2001),
http://www.cmwf.org/usr doc/duchon securitymatters 512.pdf; The Access Project,
Paying for Health Care When You're Uninsured: How Much Support Does the Safety
Net Offer? 10 (2003), http://www.accessproject.org/downloads/d finreport.pdf.





n90.  New York Lawyers for the Public Interest, The Rights of the Uninsured In
New York City Training Manual, Supplement III-E (2001) (indicating that fee
scales for inpatient services have existed since the 1970s at HHC) (on file with
the Legal Aid Society Health Law Unit).





n91.  See N.Y. City Health & Hosps. Corp., HHC Options: Making Quality Health
Care Affordable 5-8 (June 2004) (on file with The Legal Aid Society Health Law
Unit).





n92.  All of the hospitals surveyed, except for Cabrini and Maimonides,
certified in 1997 that "they would provide all medically necessary care to
medically indigent patients coming to the hospital for services" in order to
receive federal funding through a program designed to help them "transition to
Medicaid managed care." Comm'n on the Public's Health Sys., CHCCDP: Are We
Getting Our Money's Worth? Monitoring the Use of Community Health Care
Conversion Demonstration Project Funds 1, 11, 18-22 (2003) (on file with the
Journal of Legislation and Public Policy).





n93.  These hospitals were Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Mary Immaculate, and St.
Vincent's Manhattan. State Secret, supra note 6, at 34.





n94.  The three hospitals that apply their sliding fee programs to inpatient
stays are Cabrini, Elmhurst (a New York City public hospital), and Flushing
Medical Center. Id.





n95.  These hospitals were Elmhurst, Montefiore, NY Methodist, and SUNY
Downstate. Id.





n96.  Id. at 33.





n97.  The hospitals which said they require uninsured patients to pay 100
percent of their estimated charges in advance were Beth Israel, Bronx-Lebanon,
Cabrini, Jamaica, Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Mt. Sinai, St. Luke's Roosevelt, and
St.Vincent's Staten Island. Id. at 35.





n98.  Id. at 36.





n99.  Id.





n100.  See Duchon, supra note 89, at 8-9; The Access Project, supra note 89, at
10-11.





n101.  These hospitals are Beth Israel, Flushing, Lenox Hill, Mount Sinai, NY
Methodist, and St. Vincent's Staten Island. State Secret, supra note 6, at 36 &
n. 80.





n102.  Id. at 37.





n103.  These hospitals are Brookdale, Bronx-Lebanon, Elmhurst, St. John's, and
St. Vincent's Staten Island. Id. at 36.





n104.  See N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2807-k(9) (McKinney 2002) (stating that "in
order for a general hospital to participate in the distribution of funds from
the pool, the general hospital must implement minimum collection policies and
procedures ... .").





n105.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 37.





n106.  Id.





n107.  Id.





n108.  See, e.g., Duchon, supra note 89, at 9, 12; Access Project, The
Consequences of Medical Debt: Evidence from Three Communities 14-16 (2003),
http://www.accessproject.org/downloads/med consequences.pdf; Melissa B. Jacoby
et al., Rethinking the Debates over Health Care Financing: Evidence from the
Bankruptcy Courts, 76 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 375, 410 (2001) (characterizing the
bankruptcy system as the "insurer of last resort to families and individuals who
cannot pay health-care-related costs.").





n109.  Jacoby, supra note 108, at 389-90.





n110.  Id. at 392, 395 (finding that female-headed households were less numerous
in the population than they are in bankruptcy courts and that the highest filing
rate for medical-related bankruptcy in 1999 was for women in a household with no
adult male present).





n111.  Id. at 397-98 (finding that nearly half of the debtors sixty-five and
older in the study identified illness or injury as a reason for bankruptcy
filing, notwithstanding Medicare and retirement benefits).





n112.  Id. at 401.





n113.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 44-45.





n114.  Calculations conducted by Elisabeth Benjamin after learning from the
State Department of Health that the average monthly per member capitation rate
for Family Health Plus is $ 311.





n115.  Lagnado, Hospitals, supra note 1 (reporting that the trade group claimed
Medicare's "rules 'create a very strong presumption that hospitals must use
aggressive efforts to collect from all patients'").





n116.  Id.





n117.  69 Fed. Reg. 48,916, 48920 (Aug. 11, 2004) (to be codified at 42 C.F.R.
pts. 403, 412, 413, 418, 460, 480, 482, 483, 485 & 489) (explaining that the
Medicare rate is determined by (1) calculating the base payment rate, (2)
multiplying the adjusted base payment rate by the DRG relative weight, and (3)
including add-on payments for treatment of a high percentage of low-income
patients, provision of indirect medical education, use of new technology or
medical services, and exposure to outlier costs).





n118.  See Wei Yu, Health Econ. Res. Ctr., How Do I Calculate Medicare
Reimbursement for an Acute Hospitalization?, at http://www.herc.research.med.va.
gov/FAQ I18.htm (last updated Apr. 14, 2003) (last visited September 25, 2004).





n119.  Id. Of course, there are exceptions to this general rule, e.g., high cost
outlier cases. See 69 Fed. Reg. at 48920 (explaining that a hospital may be
eligible for an additional payment over the national base Medicare payment rate
for costs incurred in unusually expensive cases).





n120.  Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., Medicare Provider Reimbursement
Manual Part I ch. 26 2606.2(D) (last modified Sept.16, 2004), at http://
www.cms.hhs.gov/manuals/pub151/PUB 15 1.asp (last visited Oct. 20, 2004).





n121.  Id. The mechanism is: (1) the provider must have a published full charge
schedule; (2) the provider's revenues for patient care must be based upon the
application of the published charge schedule; (3) the provider must maintain
written policies for its process of making patient indigency determinations; and
(4) the provider must maintain sufficient documentation in support of its
"indigency allowances." Id.





n122.  42 U.S.C. 1320a-7(b)(6)(A) (2003 & Supp. 2004).





n123.  Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., supra note 120, at 2604.3(B).





n124.  Carol Pryor et al., The Commonwealth Fund, Unintended Consequences: How
Federal Regulations and Hospital Policies Can Leave Patients in Debt 10 (2003),
http://www.accessproject.org/downloads/unintended.pdf.





n125.  See Rhonda L. Rundle, Tenet to Unveil New Protections for the Uninsured,
Wall St. J., Jan. 28, 2003, at A3; Lucette Lagnado, Hospitals Urged to End Harsh
Tactics for Billing Uninsured, Wall St. J., July 7, 2003, at A9.





n126.  See 68 Fed. Reg. 53,939, 53,940 (Sept. 15, 2003) (to be codified at 42
C.F.R. pt. 1001).





n127.  Id. at 53,941.





n128.  Id.





n129.  Lucette Lagnado, HHS Chief Scolds Hospitals for Their Treatment of
Uninsured, Wall St. J., Feb. 20, 2004, at A1.





n130.  Ctrs. For Medicare & Medicaid Servs., supra note 120, at 310, 312.
Medicare's guidelines for the determination of indigence are straightforward and
merely require that the provider: (1) determine that the patient is medically
indigent, e.g., by asking patient to sign a declaration stating his inability to
pay; (2) take into account the patient's total resources, including an analysis
of assets - but only those that are convertible to cash and unnecessary for
daily living; (3) determine that there is no other source besides the patient
that is legally responsible for the bills; and (4) keep documentation of these
efforts. Id. at 312.





n131.  Id. at 312 (emphasis added).





n132.  Lucette Lagnado, New York State Hospitals Agree to Cut Prices for
Uninsured, Wall St. J., Feb. 2, 2004, at B1 [hereinafter Lagnado, New York
State] (noting that "amid mounting criticism of hospitals' treatment of the
uninsured and warnings of tough legislative remedies, hospitals in New York
state have agreed to a voluntary program to cut prices and provide charity care
for their poorest patients. They have also pledged to restrict punitive
collection tactics.").





n133.  See HANYS, Financial Aid/Charity Care Policy at New York's Not-for-Profit
Hospitals 2-3 (2004),
http://www.hanys.org/publications/upload/Financial-Aid-Charity-Care-Policy-at-Ne
w-York-s-Not-for-Profit-Hospitals-Guidelines-
from-the-Healthcare-Association-of-New-York; United States Dep't of Health and
Human Servs., The 2004 HHS Poverty Guidelines: One Version of the [U.S.] Federal
Poverty Measure at http://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty/04poverty.shtml (last revised May
3, 2004) (last visited October 28, 2004).





n134.  HANYS, supra note 133, at 2.





n135.  Id. at 5.





n136.  Lagnado, New York State, supra note 132 (noting that even charitable
entities, such as hospitals, can charge nine percent interest rates). See also
HANYS, supra note 133, at 5.





n137.  See Testimony of Kenneth E. Raske, President, Greater New York Hospital
Association, Before the New York Senate Finance and New York State Assembly Ways
and Means Committee 5 (Feb. 3, 2004) (stating that "in addition to the negative
impact that the lack of health insurance has on the lives of uninsured New
Yorkers and their families, a failure to provide employee health benefits places
an unacceptable financial burden on New York State's entire health care
community."), http://www.gnyha.org/testimony/2004/pt2004-2005 Budget.pdf (last
visited October 28, 2004).





n138.  Hevesi, supra note 28, at 17.





n139.  See Mass. Regs. Code tit. 14.6, 10.03, 10.04, 10.08 (2004); Conn. Gen.
Stat. 19a-649 (2003); N.J. Admin. Code tit. 10, 10:52-11.5 (2004).





n140.  Assemb. A09217, 2003-2004 Reg. Sess. (N.Y. 2003); Assemb. A09218,
2003-2004 Reg. Sess. (N.Y. 2003); Assemb. 09219, 2003-2004 Reg. Sess. (N.Y.
2003), http://assembly.state.ny.us/leg/ (last visited October 28, 2004).


                              152 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             July 2, 2014 Wednesday

Possible legal action over Thomas Smith's meningitis death

LENGTH: 342  words


The family of a schoolboy who died from meningitis say they are considering
legal action against the hospital, which delayed giving him antibiotics.
Thomas Smith, from Hednesford, was on holiday when he was admitted to Prince
Charles Hospital, in Merthyr Tydfil, with six meningitis symptoms.


An inquest found the hospital made "gross failures" when doctors failed to start
him on antibiotics for more than four hours.
He died on his 13th birthday last year.
Thomas's parents Andrew and Emma Smith said their son had been "let down" by
doctors at the hospital. A statement issued through their solicitor Lawyer Zak
Golombeck said: "The coroner found that there were numerous gross failures in
the care afforded to Thomas.
"As such the coroner has decided to write a report to the chief coroner and the
health board to ensure that future deaths do not occur in these circumstances.
Hospital criticised
"It is clear that the paediatric team at the Prince Charles Hospital were not
working effectively to ensure treatment was commenced as early as possible.
"In essence, they let Thomas down."
Mr Golombeck said he was advising the family with regard to legal action.
Coroner Christopher Woolley criticised the hospital for failing the schoolboy in
their duty of care and ordered a report to prevent similar deaths taking place
at Prince Charles Hospital.
Thomas, of Hednesford, near Birmingham, was referred to the hospital by an
out-of-hours GP when he fell ill in May 2013.
He was seen by Dr Kwong-Tou Yip and consultant paediatrician Dr Ezzat Afifi who
both gave him paracetamol.
Four hours later he was diagnosed with pneumococcal meningitis and was
eventually given antibiotics.
He later fell into a coma and was transferred to the University Hospital of
Wales in Cardiff but never recovered.
On Tuesday, chief executive of Cwm Taf University Health Board, Allison
Williams, said the health board would consider the coroner's findings and
continue to implement the changes required to address any failings in service.
Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                December 9, 2007

Children's hospital could be delayed further

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 255 words


Doctors at Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children in Crumlin have sought legal
advice with a view to taking a judicial review of the decision to locate the new
800 million national children's hospital at the Mater Hospital site in Dublin.

If the review goes ahead it could delay the national hospital project further.
''There is a genuine belief that the decision which has been made is not in the
best interests of the one million children in this country," said a
paediatrician at the Crumlin hospital. ''We don't want to see children's care
compromised for the next 50 years."

The full design brief for the new hospital is expected to be completed in
December 2008. It will be December 2009 by the time planning approval and
construction procurement will get underway. A judicial review can take up to two
years, although the president of the High Court has the power to speed up the
legal process.

The medical board at Crumlin has sought legal advice and has contacted a
prominent Dublin barrister.

Members of the hospital board, which is chaired by Archbishop Diarmuid Martin,
are aware of the move. A board member said there was ''deep dissatisfaction''
with the Mater proposal. The board has not signalled whether it would back a
legal challenge.

Doctors at Crumlin believe the Mater move would present huge logistical issues.
They said the original McKinsey model for one super hospital had been changed to
a fragmented model including a dissemination of services over three or four
sites with duplication of services and staff.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Legal aid clinic opened in Cuttack hospital

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: CUTTACK


CUTTACK, Sept. 2 -- Encouraged by the success of such clinics in hospitals, the
Cuttack District Legal Aid Services Authority opened a legal aid clinic at the
City Hospital here on Tuesday. District Judge SN Mishra inaugurated the clinic,
which is the eighth such clinic in the district and third in any hospital.

"The clinic will be operational on Monday and Thursday every week during which
paralegal volunteers will provides legal aid services to the needy and represent
the service seekers in different courts and tribunals," said district secretary
Soumyak Patra. The poor, destitute women and children and physically-handicapped
people would be provided free legal aid facilities, he added.

Such clinics are running successfully in the mental ward of the SCB Medical
College Hospital and "Sahaya', a unit of the Odisha State Branch of Red Cross
Society for nearly three years now. "More than 20 paralegal volunteers (lawyers)
are empanelled by the District Legal Services Authority who are giving free
legal aid services to the needy," Patra informed.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                                February 2, 2014
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Hospital takes legal action on 'bed-blocker';
Charges mount as patient 'refuses' to leave St James's after four years

BYLINE: MAEVE SHEEHAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 507 words


A DUBLIN hospital has taken legal action against an elderly patient who has
occupied a bed for nearly four years and "refuses" to leave. The elderly woman
has been ready for discharge from St James's Hospital in Dublin since May 2010.
The hospital wanted to transfer the woman to a nursing home. The hospital says
the patient "refused" to apply for the State's Fair Deal scheme, which provides
financial support to people who need long-term nursing home care. Her family
also allegedly "refused to pursue the patient's options" under the scheme.

Management at St James's Hospital sued the patient for the fees and secured an
order in the High Court last July.

According to the hospital, the patient has appealed the order. "No steps have
been taken by the patient or her family to pursue an application for long-term
care funding under the Fair Deal Scheme, and the hospital charges continue to
accumulate," said the statement. The unusual stand-off is one of the few cases
in which hospitals trying to free up acute hospital beds have taken legal action
against so-called bed-blockers.

A report showed that in one week last year, 753 patients - known as delayed
discharges - occupied hospital beds around the country even though they were
deemed well enough to be discharged. The cost has been estimated at more than
(EURO)600,000 a year.

Public and voluntary hospitals can pursue long-stay patients for fees if they
are in hospital for more than 30 days and a doctor certifies that they no longer
need acute medical care.

St James's Hospital has not disclosed how much it is owed in fees by the patient
concerned. However, the maximum charge a public patient can be charged for
long-stay care in hospital is (EURO)175 a week. That works out at more than
(EURO)9,000 for each year she spends in hospital.

The St James's statement said: "St James's Hospital is a hospital providing
in-patient care for those in need of acute services. Patients who no longer need
acute care are discharged home, or are discharged to a suitable care facility.
The patient in question has not required acute hospital care since May 2010." It
continued: "The hospital's Social Work Department has been actively engaged in
finding and offering long-term care options to the patient, but neither the
patient nor her children will complete the necessary forms to enable her to
avail of such options.

"If patients refuse to accept discharge from acute care, the hospital is obliged
under the Health (Amendment) Act of 2005 and the Regulations made under the Act
to charge the patient for the bed being occupied."

The case came before the High Court in July last year, when the hospital secured
an order against the patient for fees. The decision has since been appealed.

The HSE did not reply when asked if it had begun legal proceedings against
longstay public patients who are holding up hospital beds.

The director general of the HSE has said that reducing "delayed discharges" is
one of its cost-saving targets.

Calls to solicitors acting for the patient were not returned.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOSPITAL BEDS: St James's gives 'acute' patient care

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            March 14, 2009 Saturday

Widow considering legal action on drug;
Woman may sue company after accepting hospital's account of husband's release

BYLINE: Amy Nip and Ng Kang-chung

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 435 words


The wife of a leukaemia patient whose death was related to a fungus-tainted drug
has accepted a hospital's explanation of his early discharge but is still
considering taking legal action against the manufacturer of the drug.

The woman, Mrs Chan,  said yesterday she was satisfied with Queen Mary
Hospital's explanation that her husband - diagnosed with a fungal infection in
his liver - was in stable condition when sent home.

She will consider more evidence and legal advice before deciding whether to take
legal action against Europharm, whose gout drug Purinol  was contaminated with
the fungus Rhizopus microsporus.

Accompanied by Democratic Party legislator Fred Li Wah-ming, she met the chief
executive of the Hong Kong West cluster of hospitals, Lawrence Lai Fook-ming,
and two doctors from Queen Mary Hospital yesterday.

"They said the level of blood platelets in my husband was normal, so there was
no problem for him to go home," Mrs Chan said.

The hospital explained details of her husband's treatment, but it did not offer
Mrs Chan an apology or compensation.

The hospital said the case had been referred to the Coroner's Court.

She will meet the superintendents of United Christian Hospital - where her
husband died - on Monday.

Her husband was one of six patients whose deaths are related to the tainted
drug.

He was discharged from Queen Mary Hospital on December 24. Three days later he
was admitted to United Christian Hospital with severe bleeding in his intestine.
He died on January 1.

Mr Li said Queen Mary Hospital would investigate whether the Purinol drug taken
by Mr Chan was identical to the four batches confirmed to have been
contaminated.

Yuen Kwok- yung, head of microbiology at the University of Hong Kong, would
conduct DNA tests to figure out if the fungus which killed Mr Chan and tainted
the Europharm drug was of the same subtype. The test would take several weeks.

Lawyer Wong kwok-tung said yesterday patients could sue the drug maker for
compensation if it could be established that their condition got worse after
taking a drug.

"This may be a bit difficult for a layman because expert assistance might be
needed to prove you have taken defective drugs," he said.

Europharm Laboratories was unavailable for comment yesterday.

Meanwhile, a Department of Health spokesman confirmed yesterday that some
bacteria had been found in the raw material used by Europharm to make the drug.

But he urged calm, saying the level was well below the safety limit.

"The international safety level is 100 count per gram and the level in the raw
material is lower than 10 count per gram," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Chan, the wife of a leukaemia patient who died, met West cluster
chief Lawrence Lai Fook-ming at Queen Mary Hospital yesterday. Photo: David Wong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Southern Star (Australia)

                           August 16, 2017 Wednesday
                              SouthernStar Edition

Hospital legal service the right cure

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 165  words


QUEENSLAND'S first hospital-based Health Justice Partnership, supporting women
experiencing domestic and family violence at Logan Hospital, will be extended to
other Metro South Health facilities.

A year after the launch of the initiative, Logan Hospital Health Justice
Partnership solicitor Gail Shearer said women needing assistance at Redland,
QEII and Princess Alexandra hospitals would also have access to free, on-site
family law, domestic violence and child protection legal advice provided by the
Women's Legal Service.

She said she had received 120 referrals over the year.

"While most of the women referred to me have been by hospital staff, 12 women
also self-referred, with four becoming case clients and two ladies requiring
further referral to the Women's Legal Service Domestic Violence Unit for
intensive legal and social work support," Ms Shearer said.Metro South Health
acting chief executive Robert Mackway-Jones said he was pleased so many women
had been helped by the service.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Southern Star


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Wynnum Herald (Australia)

                           August 16, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Wynnum Edition

Hospital legal service the right cure

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 165  words


Queensland's first hospital-based Health Justice Partnership, supporting women
experiencing domestic and family violence at Logan Hospital, will be extended to
other Metro South Health facilities.

A year after the launch of the initiative, Logan Hospital Health Justice
Partnership solicitor Gail Shearer said women needing assistance at Redland,
QEII and Princess Alexandra hospitals would also have access to free, on-site
family law, domestic violence and child protection legal advice provided by the
Women's Legal Service.

She said she had received 120 referrals over the year.

"While most of the women referred to me have been by hospital staff, 12 women
also self-referred, with four becoming case clients and two ladies requiring
further referral to the Women's Legal Service Domestic Violence Unit for
intensive legal and social work support," Ms Shearer said.Metro South Health
acting chief executive Robert Mackway-Jones said he was pleased so many women
had been helped by the service.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Wynnum Herald


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        Albert & Logan News (Australia)

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday
                              AlbertLogan Edition

Hospital legal service the right cure

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 165  words


QUEENSLAND'S first hospital-based Health Justice Partnership, supporting women
experiencing domestic and family violence at Logan Hospital, will be extended to
other Metro South Health facilities.

A year after the launch of the initiative, Logan Hospital Health Justice
Partnership solicitor Gail Shearer said women needing assistance at Redland,
QEII and Princess Alexandra hospitals would also have access to free, on-site
family law, domestic violence and child protection legal advice provided by the
Women's Legal Service.

She said she had received 120 referrals over the year.

"While most of the women referred to me have been by hospital staff, 12 women
also self-referred, with four becoming case clients and two ladies requiring
further referral to the Women's Legal Service Domestic Violence Unit for
intensive legal and social work support," Ms Shearer said.Metro South Health
acting chief executive Robert Mackway-Jones said he was pleased so many women
had been helped by the service.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Albert & Logan News


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Albany Herald, Ga.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 14, 2013 Thursday

BRIEF: Hospital Authority meets to discuss legal matters

BYLINE: Jennifer Maddox Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 128 words


March 14--ALBANY, Ga. -- A special called meeting of the Hospital Authority of
Albany-Dougherty County was held Thursday morning to discuss pending legal
matters.

The meeting convened at 7:30 a.m. in the Willson Board Room of Phoebe Putney
Memorial Hospital. The Hospital Authority almost immediately went into closed
session.

The agenda from the meeting says that it was closed to "discuss with Authority
legal counsel pending and potential claims and litigation as well as other
legally confidential matters."

The closed session lasted roughly an hour before going back into open session.
No official action was taken before the meeting adjourned.

___ (c)2013 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130314-1AH-BRF-Hospital-Authority-meets-to-discuss-legal
-matters-20130314

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                                 Copyright 2013


                              161 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                               September 5, 2008
                                  City Edition

Hospital sets legal standard;
In association with Mercedes Benz of Chester

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 365 words


THE Countess of Chester has set a new benchmark for others to follow by having
the first hospital legal department to achieve Lexcel status.

Lexcel is a quality mark which is awarded by The Law Society to legal
departments that have met its practice management standards.

The standard is common in private law practices where businesses must stand out
from the competition, but so far has seen only a small take-up in the public
services sector.

To achieve the standard, legal teams must be independently assessed by approved
companies such as Centre for Assessment.

To gain official Lexcel status, legal service departments must meet and
demonstrate the Law Society's mandatory requirements which include superior
management practices, a clear structure and consistent procedures.

Lexcel helps to reduce mistakes and risks, improve client care and create
management efficiency.

Stephen Cross, solicitor and Foundation Trust secretary at the Countess, said:
"I came to the Countess of Chester from a private legal practice which used the
systems that Lexcel encourages. The hospital already excels in a number of areas
and I wanted the legal services team to be recognised as part of this success
too.

"I chose to implement this nationally recognised standard, which really does set
us apart as a truly forward-thinking hospital to which others will look as an
example of best practice. Lexcel has helped us to streamline our systems and
provide even better case management services. Patients and staff alike are
already benefiting from these changes."

Anne Milne, assessor at Centre for Assessment, said: "Lexcel assesses legal
teams on different elements, from people management and customer satisfaction to
business planning systems and case management.

"These elements are defined by The Law Society, so to meet them demonstrates
that the team at Countess of Chester really is well organised, efficient and at
the top of its game."

Cheryl Turbitt, head of legal services at the Countess, said: "Lexcel has an
added benefit for our hospitals, it is all about continual improvement. It
really is win-win and just a matter of time until more hospitals start to work
toward it."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  LAW IN ORDER: Cheryl Turbitt, head of legal services at the Countess
of Chester, with legal assistants Hannah Featherston and Kim Peate.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday
                               N-j Final Edition

Halifax reveals it's paying legal fees in hospital merger suit

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 854  words


Halifax Health confirmed this week that it has paid nearly $125,000 in legal
fees to another group that has filed suit to stop the merger of Bert Fish
Medical Center and Adventist Health System.

Halifax wanted to merge with Bert Fish Medical Center in New Smyrna Beach but
lost out to private, nonprofit Adventist Health, which owns Florida Hospital
locations in Volusia and Flagler counties.

Jeff Feasel, CEO of Daytona Beach-based Halifax Health, has publicly stated his
hospital's support for a lawsuit brought by the Bert Fish Foundation to overturn
the merger. But not until Halifax officials were questioned this week did they
reveal they were paying a lawyer with Cobb Cole that is representing the
foundation in the suit.

So far, taxpayer-supported Halifax has spent $124,900 on the legal fees.

The foundation sued to stop the merger because the deal was reached after 21
closed meetings over 16 months -- in violation of the state's Sunshine Law,
according to a judge.

After the closed meetings came to light and the suit was filed, the Bert Fish
hospital board went through the selection process a second time -- this time in
public meetings -- and came to the same decision to merge with Adventist Health.

But foundation lawyers say they are pressing on with the suit because they
believe the second decision -- the so-called "cure" -- was not reached
independently of the illegally closed meetings, as the law requires.

Halifax's involvement in the suit was news to one member of the Bert Fish
hospital board.

I guess there is a lot of money on the table and Halifax is doing everything
they can to keep the issue alive," said Robert Weiss, vice chairman of the
Southeast Volusia Hospital District.

In the lawsuit against the merger, three attorneys represent the Bert Fish
Foundation: Noah McKinnon, a lawyer and member of the Bert Fish Foundation, and
Jon Kaney and Harold Hubka, both attorneys with Cobb Cole.

McKinnon said he and Kaney are doing legal work on a contingency basis in hopes
their fees are recovered from the other side if they win the suit. Halifax is
picking up the bill for Hubka, he said.

When you look at the amount of time it takes to do this case, we need help
because Jon and I are just two people and they have two major Orlando law firms
majorly committed to this case," McKinnon said.

Kaney said there was no attempt to keep the financial arrangement with Halifax a
secret.

Once someone asked, we told them," Kaney said.

Halifax did not need approval from its governing board to pay the legal fees
because they fall under "professional services," its CEO Feasel said.

Hubka's work involves issues that are common to both Halifax Health and the Bert
Fish Foundation, Halifax officials said.

We believe it's in the best interest of the community," Feasel said of the
lawsuit's aim.

A member of the Halifax Health Board of Commissioners said he wishes he'd been
told about Halifax's financial support of the suit.

I don't know if I would have acted any differently, but it should have been
brought to the board," said Art Giles of Daytona Beach, a Halifax commissioner.

Halifax's involvement did not surprise Daryl Tol, president and chief executive
officer of Florida Hospital's Volusia/Flagler market. Several members of the
Bert Fish Foundation board, which gave the hospital to the Southeast Volusia
hospital taxing district decades ago, have close ties to Halifax, he said.

This does help us better understand the motivations and intensity driving the
current litigation," said Tol, who is also a member of the new Bert Fish
hospital board.

The Southeast Volusia Hospital District, which is also supported by tax money,
has so far spent $275,000 on legal fees involving the cure and defending the
merger, according to Darryl Bloodworth, an attorney hired by the district.

Adventist Health also has paid for some legal fees related to the so-called
cure. But Adventist Health, a private company not subject to public records
laws, will not disclose the amount because of attorney-client privilege, said
Mayanne Downs, a lawyer for Adventist Health.

Dr. Pam Carbiener, a Daytona Beach obstetrician-gynecologist, is a member of
both the Bert Fish Foundation board and the Halifax Health Board of
Commissioners. She said she has no problem with Halifax helping with the
foundation's legal costs. The goals of Halifax and the last will and testament
of Judge Bert Fish, the foundation's namesake, are in alignment on this issue
and in the interests of both communities, she said.

The deal that the Southeast Hospital board signed is a disaster for that
community, because it has the largest potential cost to taxpayers of the
Southeast District -- an additional $300 million over the time covered by the
contract," Carbiener said.

Carbiener said she thought the issue of paying some of the foundation's legal
fees was best left to the discretion of Halifax administrators, and did not
necessarily need to go before the Halifax governing board.

Halifax's Feasel said his hospital didn't officially join the suit because it
wanted to save money. He said there was no intent to hide Halifax's involvement
in the suit.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2010 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2010 News-Journal Corporation


                              163 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Ebola Outbreak: Nurses, Duncan's Family Likely Face Uphill Legal Battle

LENGTH: 298  words


The pair of nurses who contracted Ebola at a Dallas hospital -- and the family
of the Liberian man who died there last week -- would face a high bar if they
decide to take legal action, according to leading local attorneys and experts.


Nina Pham and Amber Vinson, the two caregivers who have tested positive for the
deadly virus, likely wouldn't be able to sue the hospital for damages if they're
covered by workers' compensation, according to attorney Robert Hilliard.
Hilliard, who is based in Corpus Christi, Texas, said workers' compensation is
typical for hospital employees, limiting them to time-loss pay and health
benefits. Their families or estates may have a stronger case, Hilliard said, if
the illness were fatal. A spokeswoman for the hospital did not immediately
return phone calls placed by NBC News.
The family of Thomas Eric Duncan would also have a difficult time winning
justice in a liability suit against the hospital where he was treated and died.
Texas has an incredibly restrictive tort reform law, enacted in 2003, requiring
plaintiffs suing emergency room physicians to prove willful and wanton
negligence by the doctors -- a very high bar, according to Charla Aldous, a
leading Dallas trial lawyer. She said her law office was looking into the issues
involved in potential legal action against the hospital.
Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital has come under fire for the ways it allegedly
treated Duncan and in the staff's preparedness to cope with an Ebola case. A
union that says it represents nurses in every state has said that there was no
protocol, there was no system at the hospital. The hospital has also been
criticized for first sending Duncan home after he complained of fever and
abdominal pains following travel in Liberia. 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 6, 1995, Friday, City Edition

Tarpon delivers ultimatum to Helen Ellis management

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



The Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital Foundation risks defaulting on its lease if
it doesn't agree to pay more than $ 12,000 in legal bills incurred by the
city's Health Facilities Authority.

That was the warning sent Thursday to Helen Ellis by Barbara Pankau, the
authority's attorney. The hospital has 30 days to comply or risk being in
default.

Pankau said the hospital's leases require the foundation to pay the  authority's
legal fees. One of the most extreme penalties for a default would  be the
eviction of the foundation and its governing board from the hospital so  new
management could be installed, Pankau said.

"I urge the foundation to evaluate the serious repercussions which may  result
from a continued failure to abide by its covenants in the subleases,"  Pankau
wrote in the letter mailed Thursday.

Helen Ellis' attorney, Jerry Mansmann, declined to comment Thursday on  Pankau's
letter because he hadn't yet received it. Mansmann said the  foundation already
has paid about $ 1,000 to cover administrative costs for the  authority.

"We felt that that was legitimate," he said.

In addition to paying its legal fees, the authority wants the hospital to  hand
over information about issues such as Helen Ellis' agreement with  Columbia/HCA
Healthcare Corp. to capture more managed-care contracts, as well  as specifics
on any plans the hospital has to open a medical office building  in Pasco
County.

The five-member authority, which is appointed by the City Commission, is  the
liaison between the city and the hospital. The city, which owns the  hospital
land and buildings, leases them to the authority, which in turn  leases them to
the foundation, a private non-profit group.

The hospital foundation is made up of representatives from more than 60  local
churches and civic groups. The hospital is governed by an 11-member  board,
which includes foundation representatives and hospital administrator  Joe
Kiefer.

For nine months the city and hospital have been feuding over the future of
Helen Ellis, a 150-bed facility. The dispute culminates Nov. 14 in a
referendum. Voters will be asked to decide whether the city should sell Helen
Ellis. A majority of the City Commission favors such a move, but Helen Ellis'
governing board opposes it.

Hospital administrator Kiefer said the foundation has not flatly refused to  pay
the authority's legal bills.

"It was a request for additional information and we're not going to pay it
until they get the additional information," Kiefer said.

Pankau included additional information in her letter, as well as the
authority's latest legal bill for $ 5,756. The foundation had previously
received a bill of $ 6,260.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


                              165 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyers meeting over Bert Fish case legal fees

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 412  words


Lawyers for the Southeast Volusia Hospital District and the Bert Fish Foundation
will meet in court-ordered mediation today to try to reach an agreement on what
legal fees the hospital district must pay the foundation.

Circuit Judge Richard Graham has indicated he will award the philanthropic
foundation legal fees for bringing the case that forced the hospital district to
comply with the state Sunshine Law.

Graham ruled the Sunshine Law was violated when the hospital district conducted
21 private meetings to sell or lease Bert Fish Medical Center, which is
supported with taxes from property owners in Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak
Hill and a portion of Port Orange.

The judge ordered the 2010 merger between the New Smyrna Beach hospital and
nonprofit Adventist Health System undone on Feb. 24 after a five-day court
proceeding.

Now the question remains, how much money does the district owe the foundation
for bringing the suit?

The two attorneys who brought the case, Jon Kaney of Cobb Cole, and Noah
McKinnon, the foundation's lawyer, took the case on a contingency basis and have
filed for fees that total nearly $1 million.

But totaling the amount has been complicated. Halifax Health, also a public
taxing district, paid legal fees to press the Sunshine Law case against the
district in an effort to keep Bert Fish Medical Center from becoming the sixth
hospital in Volusia and Flagler counties run by Adventist Health System.

Halifax paid for the time of Harold Hubka, another Cobb Cole attorney --
contributing $271,806 in legal fees, according to a Halifax spokeswoman.

So far, the district, which pays for indigent medical care in Southeast Volusia,
has racked up an estimated $2.4 million in merger- related legal and consulting
fees, most of them spent defending the merger. That does not include fees that
Adventist Health paid for the services of several other lawyers and consultants.

The district board, in turn, voted unanimously Aug. 25 to send a letter
demanding $22.5 million to the firm of the lawyer who advised the board to close
the merger meetings to the public. Jim Heekin, one of the partners of the
Orlando firm Lowndes, Drosdick, Doster, Kantor & Reed, advised the hospital
board it could meet outside public view.

McKinnon said he couldn't comment on today's proceeding because of
confidentiality rules and lawyers for the Southeast Volusia Hospital District
could not be reached for comment.

The hearing will be in front of mediator Terry White.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              166 of 993 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Cape Fear Valley, FirstHealth continue battle over hospitals in Hoke County

BYLINE: The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 744 words


June 21--BY JENNIFER CALHOUN

RAEFORD -- FirstHealth of the Carolinas on Monday night again asked Cape Fear
Valley Health System to drop legal appeals and get on with the business of
building hospitals in Hoke County.

The request was made during the county's regular Board of Commissioners meeting.

FirstHealth Chief Executive Officer Charles Frock said he would be willing to
drop plans for a 65-bed hospital and build an eight-bed hospital in the county,
if Cape Fear Valley would drop appeals and start building its proposed 41-bed
hospital.

Otherwise, Frock said, the legal battles and construction could eventually delay
a hospital in the county for 10 years.

But Cape Fear Valley Chief Executive Officer Mike Nagowski didn't seem
interested in FirstHealth's proposal.

Nagowski said that Cape Fear Valley's proposed 41-bed hospital would be better
for the county than FirstHealth's proposed eight-bed hospital.

In addition, he said, an eight-bed hospital isn't financially sustainable, and
that -- with so few beds -- it was meant to be a stop-off for patients who would
ultimately be taken to FirstHealth Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst.

Chairman Tony Hunt said he asked the health systems to attend the meeting
because of growing frustration in the county over the legal bickering between
the two companies.

"All of the commissioners have been getting phone calls and people stopping us
on the streets, asking us, 'When are we going to get a hospital?'" Hunt said
after the meeting.

Pointed questions

Hunt grilled the CEOs during the meeting, with Nagowski getting the brunt of the
questions.

Hunt noted that the state's Department of Health and Human Services had advised
the county could support two hospitals, and questioned why Nagowski would be
against it.

"Why wouldn't we do that?" Hunt said. "What are you protecting Hoke County
from?"

Nagowski said he was concerned that an eight-bed hospital wasn't sufficient for
a growing county the size of Hoke.

"If someone shows up, and there are only eight beds, where do they go if they're
full?" Nagowski said.

Hunt fired back.

"They go down the road," he said, "to your 41-bed hospital."

Hunt later added: "I understand your concern for FirstHealth ... but that
liability is on them. Why would you care? Why would that be a problem?"

Hunt asked Frock, who is retiring at the end of the year, whether FirstHealth
would still be committed to the project after he left.

Frock said the health system's board of directors was fully committed to the
project and would continue it in his absence.

Hunt asked Frock why the health system hadn't purchased land, yet, while Cape
Fear Valley Health System had already purchased land on U.S. 401.

Frock said that the health system had a purchase option, but was still working
to resolve some infrastructure issues.

It had nothing to do with lack of commitment to the county, he said.

Hunt said the board may end up drafting a formal resolution to let the state and
the two health systems know where they stand.

The meeting was a way to ask some questions the residents have been asking him
and other board members, he said.

"We're just sick and tired of all the legal maneuvering," Hunt said.

Hunt said he didn't want to drive down the road in five years and still see no
hospital.

Or worse, he said, sick patients who had to be driven 30 to 40 minutes for
emergency services "with their life hanging in the balance."

"That's what the board is concerned about, and that's what the citizens are
concerned about," he said. "That's what we want to convey to you tonight."

Legal battle

The two health systems have been locked in legal battles since 2009, when both
companies submitted requests to build hospitals in the county.

Both hospitals have been approved -- FirstHealth for an eight-bed facility and
Cape Fear Valley for a 41-bed facility.

On June 15, FirstHealth submitted an additional request with the state to build
a 65-bed hospital in the county.

The measure was taken after the state said the Cumberland-Hoke medical services
needed 65 additional beds.

Staff writer Jennifer Calhoun can be reached at calhounj@fayobserver.com or
486-3595.

To see more of The Fayetteville Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.fayettevillenc.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Fayetteville
Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110621-FY-Cape-Fear-Valley-FirstHealth-continue-battle-over-hospitals
-in-Hoke-County-0621-20110621

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2011 The Fayetteville Observer


                              167 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            March 26, 2003 Wednesday

FTC holding series of hearings on legal issues for hospitals

LENGTH: 296 words


FTC holding series of hearings on legal issues for hospitals

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report

WASHINGTON - The Federal Trade Commission (FTC; Washington) is conducting a
series of hearings, beginning today, focused on hospital-related legal issues.
The hearings, to run through Friday, are co-sponsored by the Department of
Justice (Washington).

Topics to be discussed include the emergence of single-specialty hospitals,
hospital contracting practices and issues in litigating hospital mergers,
according to David Hyman, office of the general counsel at FTC.

"The day will start with a roundtable discussion. The attendees will talk about
the challenges they face in the hospital setting and how they perceive
competition law," said Hyman. The afternoon will be devoted to the growing niche
hospitals, or "focused factory" industry, such as a hospital specializing in
cardiac procedures and treatments, Hyman said.

The second and third days will focus on contracting and mergers.

"With some payer contracts, a hospital system will tell the insurer that they
either agree to include all hospitals in the network, or it's nothing. Payers
don't like this type of forced agreement," said Hyman.

Government officials also want to determine what makes a merger between
hospitals so different from other merger agreements. "We want to identify the
factors that go into a merger agreement. Obviously the FTC needs to improve its
understanding of this arena, based on our 0-for-7 record," said Hyman. Hyman was
referring to the FTC's string of losses in litigation regarding mergers, with
the agency arguing that they violate anti-trust regulations.

The hearings, free and open to the public, are being held at the FTC conference
center, 601 New Jersey Ave. in NW Washington.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2003 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           October 25, 2014 Saturday

Tax-Exempt Status For Nonprofit Hospitals Under The ACA: Where Are The Final
Treasury/IRS Rules

LENGTH: 1664  words


Months have now stretched into years, and there still remains no sign of final
Treasury/IRS regulations interpreting the Affordable Care Act (ACA)'s provisions
covering the expanded obligations of nonprofit hospitals that seek tax-exempt
status under §501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.


The ACA amendments do not depend on formal agency policy to take effect.
Nonetheless, Congress directed the Treasury Secretary to issue regulations and
guidance necessary to carry out the reforms (26 U.S.C. §501(r)(7)). To this end,
two important sets of proposed rules were issued: the first in June, 2012; and
the second, in April 2013. While an informative IRS website lists various
proposed rules and guidelines important to nonprofit hospitals, final rules seem
to have performed a disappearing act.
Apparently recognizing the problems created by its delays, the agency has gone
so far as to issue a special Notice letting nonprofit hospitals (and presumably
the public) know that they can rely on its proposed rules. But this assurance
overlooks the fact that the proposed rules themselves contained crucial areas in
which final agency policy has not yet been adopted.
The ACA Reforms
Section 9007 of the ACA added a new §501(r) to the Internal Revenue Code,
establishing a set of expanded obligations as a condition of federal tax-exempt
status. The Hilltop Institute, which tracks state activities around hospital
community benefit, reports that many states link their own tax-exempt policies
to satisfaction of federal tax-exempt requirements.
The ACA's expanded obligations span a number of important areas: community
health planning; financial assistance for patients; and hospitals' billing and
collection practices.
Community Health Needs Assessment
The ACA requires hospitals to conduct a community health needs assessment
(CHNA). This requirement took effect in 2012; it consists not only of planning
with broad community and public health input but also adoption of an
Implementation Strategy detailing how the hospital's community benefit
investment will meet the needs identified in the CHNA (26 U.S.C. §501(r)(3)).
Following the issuance of preliminary 2011 guidance , the IRS issued a proposed
rule in 2013, 77 Fed. Reg. 20523 (April 5, 2013) outlining a relatively robust
CHNA process, even as it left certain aspects of its CHNA policy less than fully
defined. Critical issues that remain outstanding include how hospitals define
"community," and whether the all-important Implementation Strategy component of
the CHNA process -- essentially a hospital organization's community benefit
investment blueprint -- must itself be made available for public comment prior
to board adoption.  Finalizing these regulatory policies is critical. The
National Network of Public Health Institutes undertook a project funded by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, whose purpose was to test the
feasibility of an online tool to support community health planning. Its findings
suggest that hospitals vary widely in how they define the pivotal concept of
"community" in relation to their planning obligations. The report found, for
example, that despite the proposed rules' emphasis on geographic community
definitions that did not discriminate against medically underserved populations
at risk for health disparities, only 23 percent of surveyed CHNAs expressly took
geographic health disparities into account in defining the community to be
served.
Financial Assistance/Billing and Collection Practices
The ACA reformed the procedures and standards applicable to tax-exempt hospital
financial assistance programs, historically a core activity of tax-exempt
hospitals, and one that takes on special importance in states that, to date,
have failed to implement the Medicaid adult expansion. The ACA amendments (26
U.S.C. §501(r)(4)(A)) make several key reforms: they limit the charges that can
be leveled against patients eligible for financial assistance; they require
hospitals to establish written policies specifying financial eligibility
criteria, how patients can qualify for assistance, and hospital collection
practices in the event of non-payment; and they require that policies be "widely
publicize[d] within the community served by the organization."
The amendments also require written policies clarifying hospital compliance with
Medicare Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA) requirements
regarding emergency medical care. On June 22 2012, the IRS issued a proposed (77
Fed. Reg. 38148) rule implementing the requirements. Nearly two and a half years
later, no final rule has been issued.
The statutory requirements are in effect, of course. On August 25th, public
interest lawyers representing affected residents in Miami filed a first-of-its
kind administrative claim with the IRS against Jackson Health System, alleging
failure to comply with the ACA's financial assistance and CHNA requirements.
Relying on the proposed rules and the statute itself, lawyers from Florida Legal
Services and the National Health Law Program allege that Jackson Health System's
failure to comply with the ACA has the potential to affect at least 165,000
indigent Miami-Dade County residents deprived of coverage as a result of
Florida's refusal to adopt the adult Medicaid expansion.
The implications flowing from the denial of Medicaid coverage are, of course,
enormous for hospitals such as Jackson Health System, which play an absolutely
essential role in the lives of their disadvantaged community residents. At the
same time, the ACA makes clear that a hospital's status as tax-exempt is to be
tied to an increased level of transparency and community accountability -- in
community health improvement planning, in billing and collection practices used,
in adherence to EMTALA, and in maintaining financial assistance programs that
are fair and accessible. Legal challenges such as the Miami case, especially in
the Medicaid opt-out states -- where financial assistance is of the utmost
importance -- can be expected to grow, and thus the imperative for final
Treasury rules increases.
A Community Health Improvement Dividend from the Affordable Care Act?
The most authoritative study to date estimates that hospitals apply less than 1
percent of their overall expenditures to community health improvement
activities. Furthermore, the IRS defines community health improvement to include
not only actual health interventions but also hospitals' own health planning
costs and costs associated with hospital fund-raising activities. There is no
way of knowing just how much hospitals actually spend on community health
improvement.
Nonetheless in recent years there have been numerous examples of hospital
efforts to make community investments that can improve population health. As we
pointed out in an earlier Health Affairs Blog post, the Affordable Care Act
creates the potential for the modest 1 percent figure to rise as a result of
increasing insurance coverage, especially in the Medicaid expansion states. With
increased insurance should come a decline in the need for financial assistance
for the uninsured. Indeed, early evidence suggests that gains in coverage are
likely to have a salutary effect on hospitals' bottom lines, as they realize
gains in both patients and revenues.
It may seem strange, given the administrative complaint noted above, to focus on
investments in legal supports for patients as an area of community health
improvement. But this may be one of the most promising opportunities for
hospital community investment programs, given the impact of legal barriers in
areas such as housing, economic, environmental, and nutritional assistance on
patient health. A striking example of an alliance between hospitals and lawyers
to improve community health can be found in "medical-legal partnership (MLP)"
programs -- that is, programs under which hospitals integrate civil legal aid
lawyers who specialize in resolving legal problems linked to the social
conditions of health.
Pioneered by Boston Medical Center and now in operation in 135 hospitals and 127
community health centers around the country, the MLP movement offers the
potential to bring legal expertise to bear on the underlying conditions of poor
health among patients, both addressing and preventing such problems as
substandard housing, domestic violence, food insecurity, environmental risks,
unemployment, and poverty. The program, which is a response to a documented high
level of legal need among the poor, has attracted national attention for its
efforts to alleviate social conditions that affect health.
Examples of hospitals that have built support for MLP into their community
benefit activities can be found at Seattle Children's Hospital, Boston
Children's Hospital, and Southern Illinois Healthcare (SIH) System. Beyond
improving community health, SIH in particular has demonstrated significant
return on investment (ROI) through its medical-legal partnership. MLP activities
fall squarely within the definition of community activities that have the
potential to improve community health while addressing key cost drivers.
Going Forward
Whatever the reason for the delay in the Treasury/IRS regulations, it is evident
that this major policy advance deserves to be rapidly formalized in final
implementing policy. After all, the heavy lifting -- proposed rules -- has
happened. As the IRS has made clear by its own signal to the public to rely on
the proposed rules, hospitals (and presumably all of us) can rely on the
proposed rules in moving forward. Yet critical issues await resolution.
Certainly some of the regulatory decisions raise complex implementation issues,
but the ACA's reforms in the areas of financial assistance, transparency, and
community health improvement planning (including identifying need and creating
and updating spending blueprints) are relatively straightforward. The statute
has taken effect, but the a 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             March 31, 2014 Monday

HSE may cut funding to two hospitals;
St Michael s and St Vincent s could lose support over consultant appointments

BYLINE: Martin Wall

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 543 words


The HSE is planning to cut all capital or development funding to St Vincent's
and St Michael's hospitals in south Dublin as well as to suspend their rights to
appoint new consultants and refuse to sanction further lines of credit if their
governing board does not agree to a process to stop senior doctors paid by the
State working in its private hospital.

In what is building up to potentially the biggest clash between the State and a
voluntary hospital, the HSE is also understood to be looking at plans to
withdraw medical specialities and related funding from hospitals in the St
Vincent's group and assign these to other institutions.

The HSE has accused the St Vincent's Healthcare Group of seeking to mislead it
on the extent of the practice of consultants employed in its public hospitals
working also in St Vincent's Private Hospital.

In a letter to the chairman of the St Vincent's Hospital Group, Prof Noel Whelan
last Thursday, HSE director general Tony O'Brien set a deadline of today for it
to reply to demands for a process which would see such consultants cease private
practice in St Vincent's Private Hospital.

The Irish Times                      understands that the HSE is planning to
impose significant sanctions on the St Vincent's Hospital Group, which operates
the two public institutions, St Vincent's University Hospital in Elm Park and St
Michael's in Dn Laoghaire as well as St Vincent's Private Hospital. unless it
receives a reply it considers to be a satisfactory response. Highly placed
health service sources suggested the HSE would also "take steps to ensure that
private insurers review their relationships with St Vincent's Private Hospital
vis-a-vis individual consultants".

The St Vincent's Hospital Group last night signalled the row could end up in the
courts. The dispute, in essence, centres on whether consultants employed in the
public hospitals on a particular contract known as type B can engage in practice
in the group's private facility. Since 2008, new hospital consultants have been
appointed under either a category A contract, which allows them to work only in
public hospitals, or on a type B contract, which permits limited private
practice in public hospitals. However, the St Vincent's Healthcare Group told
the HSE earlier this month that its legal advice was that, as its private
hospital was co-located with the public facility and operated by the same
employer, its category B consultants could work in both institutions on its
campus.

Legal opinionA spokesman for the St Vincent's Healthcare Group said: "We would
expect that the resolution of differences in legal opinion in the interpretation
of the consultants contract would be resolved where differences in legal opinion
are normally resolved, through some form of judicial process."

The St Vincent's Healthcare Group has indicated to the HSE that 95 consultants
employed in its public hospitals also carry out private practice in St Vincent's
Private Hospital. However it suggested that not all would have category B
contracts and that some, for example, could be academic consultants.

Highly placed health service sources said the HSE was "appalled" at only
learning the extent of these private practice arrangements in recent weeks.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 13, 1997, Friday

Cracks form in secrecy of Tarpon hospital negotiations

BYLINE: CHRISTINA HEADRICK

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



A year and a half into a legal battle between the city and Helen Ellis  Memorial
Hospital, some of those involved are wondering whether keeping  settlement talks
secret serves the public's interest.

At two recent meetings, the city-appointed Health Facilities Authority
considered the need for secrecy.

"Settlement proposals may be something the public is entitled to hear,"  said
John Tarapani, chairman of the authority, which issued bonds for Helen  Ellis
and sublets the city-owned land and buildings to the hospital  foundation.

"These are public issues that should be discussed in public," he said.  "That's
been our position all along."

George Psaras, a former Tarpon Springs mayor on the authority, agreed.

"There's nothing that should be kept from the public when you're dealing  with
public assets," he said. "Right now, there's too many rumors that  aren't true
because people don't have all the information."

The city, the authority and the private foundation that runs Helen Ellis  are
entangled in lawsuits to clarify the proper relationship among the three.

The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation contends that the city and authority
have overstepped their roles. The foundation sued in late 1995 to clarify
questions about its lease with the city.

The city and authority had been dissatisfied since 1994, when the  foundation
tried to partner with Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. without the  city's input.
The city has countersued the foundation to seek more control  over the hospital
property it owns.

Yet, both sides now say they want to settle the legal mess before it goes  to
trial.

For months, the city and hospital foundation have held secret negotiations.  The
talks have been more frequent in the past month.

The legal negotiations are exempt from state open government laws. When the
litigation is settled, everything will become public record.

One way to settle the case would be to revise the hospital's lease so  everyone
is satisfied. The city also could sell its interest in the hospital  to the
foundation and get out of the health care business.

On the advice of City Attorney John Hubbard, the Health Facilities  Authority
agreed this week that its discussions about the dispute will remain  secret -
for now.

"We are in litigation with a private group who isn't subject to the same  rules
that we are," Hubbard said. "That's the really unfair part of this  thing. The
other guys would have a really huge advantage over us, unless we  also have the
ability to discuss everything in private."

Hospital attorneys said they were "cautiously optimistic" that a  settlement
would be reached, but wanted to negotiate without public scrutiny.

"Discussions are at a sensitive stage," said Dale Webber, a Tampa lawyer  with
Buchanan Ingersoll Professional Corp. "It would be difficult to go  forward if
they weren't confidential."

The hospital has gone out of its way to keep everything secret, city  officials
said.

A month ago, hospital attorneys asked the city to sign an agreement  promising
that any hospital documents turned over during litigation be kept  confidential.

The agreement was contrary to state laws that require city records to be  open,
City Manager Costa Vatikiotis said.

"There is a difference in mind-set how we conduct business and how they  do,"
Vatikiotis said. "There are very few things under Florida law that can  ever be
confidential in city governments. The hospital has privacy concerns  tied to
competition in the local health care market. But we could not sign any  such
agreement."

Meanwhile, the legal bills continue to mount. Although the hospital  considers
its costs confidential, the city's expenses are not.

To date, Tarpon Springs has spent about $ 292,500 on legal fees, copying and
court reporters to battle the hospital. The Health Facilities Authority has
spent about $ 75,000 in legal fees, Tarapani said.

"We're not the ones who sued in the first place," Vatikiotis said. "This  is the
cost of the city protecting itself. It's a very expensive case."

- Times files were used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); (1989) City Attorney John Hubbard; (1987)
Former Mayor George Psaras

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              171 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              June 2, 2014 Monday

Hospital chairman says he's not pleased with handling of lawsuit

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 540  words


Halifax health board

DAYTONA BEACH -- The chairman of the Halifax Health Board of Commissioners is
not pleased with how the hospital's management and legal team are handling a
whistleblower lawsuit that has cost the system more than $108 million.

John Johnson, who leads the seven-member hospital board, expressed his
frustrations during a two-minute statement Monday at the beginning of the
board's monthly meeting. In the past, hospital board members have refrained from
publicly discussing the whistleblower suit, which accuses the hospital of
improperly billing Medicare and maintaining illegal contracts with doctors.

"We need to look at personnel and make appropriate decisions," Johnson said in
response to a reporter's questions, adding that management and legal staff
should "move the legal process forward in an appropriate way."

He declined to elaborate on what changes could be in store for the 678-bed
public hospital system based in Daytona Beach. He said he is unhappy with how
long the suit has continued, the cost it is inflicting on the hospital and a
federal magistrate judge's order last week rebuking the hospital's legal team
for submitting a "tardy and deficient" statement to the court before a mediation
session.

"I am not pleased with how we are handling the litigation before us," Johnson
told the board.

Board member Karen Jans voiced her agreement with the chairman, and the matter
was not discussed further during the meeting.

The whistleblower suit was filed in 2009 by Elin Baklid-Kunz, who is still
employed by Halifax Health as director of physician services.

The hospital has spent more than $23 million on its own legal defense and
settled a portion of the case for $85 million in March. The U.S. Department of
Justice joined the plaintiff in that part of the lawsuit, but declined to
intervene in the remaining claims.

The two sides remain at loggerheads over allegations that the hospital
improperly admitted patients for short inpatient stays and billed Medicare at a
higher rate as a result.

Johnson, who also is president of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, has been
supportive of the hospital's leadership in the past, calling them in August
"good guys in white hats" who did nothing wrong.

Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel acknowledged during a break in the meeting a
mistake was made in submitting paperwork ahead of mediation, but he said
internal legal staff and management were not at fault.

"We are all upset," Feasel said. "It's a mistake. It happened. We'll fix it and
move on."

He defended the hospital's lead counsel McDermott Will & Emery, saying it is one
of the top five health care law firms in the country. He added that "not every
part of a legal case is going to go the way that you want it."

Last week, Marlan Wilbanks, an attorney representing Baklid- Kunz, said
settlement discussions collapsed, and the case is likely headed to trial in July
in federal court in Orlando.

Experts for Baklid-Kunz calculated Medicare overpayments arising from improper
admissions totaled $82.2 million, according to court documents. Factoring in
damages and penalties, Wilbanks said the potential price tag for Halifax Health
could climb as high as $300 million.

Hospital chair not pleased with handling of lawsuit

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              172 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Post (South Africa)

                            July 09, 2008 Wednesday
                                   e1 Edition

My mum died at hospital - can we sue?

SECTION: LEISURE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 369 words


DEAR LEGAL EAGLE

MY MOTHER died under tragic circumstances. She was admitted to a Johannesburg
hospital to remove her gallstones.

My brother asked the nurses why the side railing on her bed were not raised, as
my mother could fall off the bed as she was short and morphine was administered
to her.

A nurse advised my brother she would not fall off the bed and that there was no
reason to raise the side bar.

However, it appears that around 2am that morning my mother tried to contact the
nurse who was busy with another patient. My mother fell from the bed and
subsequently died.

She suffered a concussion and died from head injuries. What are our legal
remedies?

ANON

DEAR READER

IT IS SAD that your mother had been harmed by the same institution she sought
help from.

Almost everyone knows of a person who was admitted to hospital for some
innocuous complaint and subsequently died from another complaint.

In most of these instances the cause of death is as a result of the negligence
of some person associated with the hospital.

Patients go to the hospital with the expectation that all the doctors, nurses
and other employees of the hospital would provide the most competent and
comprehensive treatment possible.

The hospital employees have this duty of care and any treatment or care that
falls below this standard can amount to negligent or reckless conduct on the
part of these employees.

Your family can sue the hospital for the loss sustained by your family, arising
out of the death of your mother, which was due to the negligence of their staff.

I suggest you consult with an attorney in Johannesburg to institute a claim
against the hospital.

The attorney will advise you as to what amount you can claim for.

I do not have enough facts to advise you of the different categories of claim
that your family have. If your mother had dependant children, they will be
entitled to sue for loss of support.

Legal action not only serves to benefit those who sustained loss financially but
it also forces institutions like the hospital to provide proper training and
eradicate bad habits.

It may serve to ensure that no one suffers the same fate as your mother. Legal
action under these circumstances deter malpractices.

LEGAL EAGLE

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NP


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 09, 1999, Friday

Hospital foundation to pay Times legal fees

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



(ran SS edition of METRO & STATE)

When someone requests records they believe are public under the Florida
Constitution, the person should not be dragged into an expensive legal fight, a
circuit judge has affirmed.

Judge L. Ralph Smith Jr. last week ordered the Tarpon Springs Hospital
Foundation, the non-profit group that runs city-owned Helen Ellis Memorial
Hospital, to pay a portion of the St. Petersburg Times' legal fees after the
foundation responded to the newspaper's records request by suing.

Times Executive Editor and Deputy Chairman Paul Tash said the award of legal
fees is important because it emphasizes that making a public records request is
every Floridian's constitutional right.

Without the ruling, "private citizens who don't have the resources of a
newspaper would be left wondering what kind of bill is going to come from making
a public records request," Tash said.

The dispute began in 1997 after state Attorney General Bob Butterworth issued an
opinion that the foundation's records should be public because the foundation
performs a governmental function on behalf of the city.

Citing Butterworth's opinion, the newspaper requested access to minutes of
foundation board meetings and similar documents. In response, the foundation
sued the newspaper in Leon County Circuit Court.

The newspaper's attorneys argued that Florida public records laws are set up so
that the person making the request has the option of suing if a request for
records is declined.

The hospital could simply have declined to provide the records if it believed
they were not public, the attorneys said.

After the hospital first filed the suit, it lay dormant.

In the meantime, the Florida Legislature passed a blanket exemption to public
meetings and records laws for hospitals like Helen Ellis. A circuit judge in
another case ruled the exemption covered Helen Ellis Memorial.

Still, the hospital pressed on with the suit, insisting it had questions about
whether it had to follow Florida's open government laws. Foundation attorney
Samuel Braver of Pittsburgh filed an updated lawsuit in April. He could not be
reached for comment Thursday.

In awarding the fees, the judge found a "complete absence" of issues that needed
his attention in the latest version of the hospital foundation's suit.

Smith ordered the foundation to pay the newspaper's legal fees since April, an
estimated $ 7,500, said St. Petersburg attorney Tom McGowan, who represented the
newspaper in the case.

The Times plans to donate the money to an area charity, Tash said.

"The newspaper typically donates these sorts of awards to charitable causes in
the community so that the community itself isn't damaged," Tash said.

The foundation was ordered last year to pay the legal fees of another group, the
Tarpon Springs Health Facilities Authority, which issued the bonds to finance
hospital expansions.

"I just find it kind of hard to understand why it is the hospital seems to end
up paying everybody's legal fees," foundation president Lester Garner said
Thursday. "To me it's an indication that it's open season on the hospital. It
just doesn't seem right."

But the foundation sued both the authority and the Times.

"We didn't pick this fight," Tash said. "I'm glad to have it resolved in this
way."


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; SEMINOLE TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY &
STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              174 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                    August 23, 1997, Saturday, ALL EDITIONS

Grady's lawyer costs rising;
Outside the curve: While many hospitals are trimming legal fees by hiring more
in-house attorneys, Grady increasingly retains prestigious law firms.

BYLINE: David Pendered; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 06E

LENGTH: 616 words


Fees paid to lawyers by Grady Health System rose 52 percent in the past five
years as private law firms were increasingly used to manage a growing workload
at the system that oversees Grady Memorial Hospital.

Legal costs, which exclude sums paid in court fines and settlements, swelled to
$ 2.52 million last year, up from $ 1.66 million in 1992, according to figures
provided by Grady, Georgia's largest charity hospital. Grady's counterparts in
three other cities report that they have curbed their legal expenses by using
mainly in-house or government lawyers.

"It makes sense to have in-house people," said Conchita Topinka Ruiz,
spokeswoman for Miami's Jackson Memorial Hospital. "The amount of money we've
paid in legal expenses has gone down since we've begun using them." Legal fees
represent less than 1 percent of Grady's $ 446.5 million budget. But as lawyer
Robert Proctor, who recently settled a lawsuit against the hospital, noted,
"It's symptomatic of what's going on over there. When you add up $ 2.5 million
here and $ 2.5 million there, you run into some real money."

In Charlotte, last year's legal costs for in-house and private lawyers were less
than $ 1 million, a minuscule fraction of the $ 1.3 billion operation at
Carolinas HealthCare System, according to spokesman Scott White.

Former Grady board member John Sherman said one of Grady's private lawyers
advised the board last year that the hospital could save up to $ 500,000 a year
by hiring more in-house lawyers. At the wages Grady has set for its in-house
counsel, $ 47,000 to $ 115,000 a year, Sherman said it could hire lawyers
competent to handle contracts and chaperon committee meetings to address legal
issues that arise.

"Many times there were two private attorneys sitting in some of the meetings I
attended," Sherman said. "It's a ridiculous waste of taxpayer dollars."

Grady board Chairman Robert Brown said incessant turnover in the hospital's
legal affairs office prompted the board to increase reliance on private lawyers.
The legal affairs office is set up as a staff of two lawyers, a chief and
assistant. Since 1993, four chief lawyers have come and gone. The last left in
May, after serving fewer than eight months, and the position has not been
filled.

Meanwhile, the two largest increases in legal expenses have come in the areas of
launching a managed care program and in labor relations.

Some observers view the labor disputes as indication of morale problems stemming
from the departure of more than a dozen top executives in the past four years.

Defense costs associated with medical malpractice lawsuits, an area generally
thought to be on the rise, appear to have remained relatively constant.

Brown said he intends to ask the management consultants now reviewing Grady's
spending patterns to consider whether Grady should start a full-service in-house
law department, similar to those in several local governments such as Gwinnett
and Fulton counties and Atlanta.

While that issue is debated, Grady continues to retain Atlanta's more
influential law firms including one owned by Marvin Arrington, Atlanta City
Council president and mayoral candidate. The others are Alston & Bird, where Lt.
Gov. Pierre Howard works; Powell Goldstein Frazer & Murphy, where former Grady
counsel and former Arrington partner Lewis Horne works; James West; and Shreeder
Wheeler & Flint, which negotiated contract disputes during Grady's recent
renovation.  "We look for law firms with the greatest expertise in certain areas
so we get the best advice," Brown said. "The firms focus on areas we think are
critically important to the hospital (and) we feel comfortable with them."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Private attorneys were hired to resolve disputes with companies
involved
 in Grady Memorial Hospital's renovation, which included construction of a
 wing with a sweeping atrium. / KIMBERLY SMITH / Staff
 Chart: Grady's legal eagles
 Grady Health System retains five law firms to mainage its legal affairs.
 The total cost of paying private lawyers has risen 52 percent over the
 past five years.
 Firm
 Alston & Bird
 (Malpractice, corporate affairs)
 1992: $ 1,400,000
 1993: $ 1,872,934
 1994: $ 2,190,479
 1995: $ 1,625,818
 1996: $ 1,542,560
 Firm
 Arrington & Hollowell
 (Employment/labor issues)
 1992: $ 257,832
 1993: $ 149,883
 1994: $ 115,043
 1995: $ 368,010
 1996: $ 636,974
 Firm
 James West
 (Contracts and purchasing)
 1992: NA
 1993: NA
 1994: NA
 1995: $ 24,382
 1996: $ 55,075
 Firm
 Powell Goldstein Frazer & Murphy
 (Medicare issues)
 1992: NA
 1993: NA
 1994: NA
 1995: NA
 1996: $ 42,159
 Firm
 Schreeder Wheeler & Flint
 (Managed care and construction)
 1992: NA
 1993: NA
 1994: $ 47,577
 1995: $ 262,611
 1996: $ 244,474
 Totals
 1992: $ 1,657,832
 1993: $ 2,022,817
 1994: $ 2,353,099
 1995: $ 2,280,821
 1996: $ 2,521,242

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


                              175 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                              May 26, 2014 Monday

MLO's killing leaves seats empty

BYLINE: Syed Jafar Aksari

SECTION: Vol. XXVIII No. 88

LENGTH: 223  words


After the killing of a medico-legal officer (MLO), Dr Manzoor Ahmed Memon,
leading public hospitals in the city are facing shortage of medico-legal
officers (MLOs), The Nation has learned.

The murder of MLO Dr Manzoor Ahmed Memon has forced MLOs of other hospitals to
go on vacations.

Three major public hospitals of the city, Jinnah Postgraduate and Medical Centre
(JPMC), Civil Hospital, Karachi, and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital are facing the
shortage of MLOs.

According to reports, as many as five MLOs were deputed in the JPMC before the
killing of Dr Manzoor Ahmed Memon, only three MLOs are left for postpartum
service and others.

On the other hand, only five MLOs of 17 grades are working in the Civil
Hospital, while only six MLOs are engaged at Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

The medico-legal officers of Jinnah Postgraduate and Medical Centre (JPMC),
Civil Hospital, Karachi, and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital have staged a protest to
denounce the killing of their colleague.

A senior doctor of JPMC, declined to be named, said that MLOs fear Dr Memon
ending.

He said that MLOs often receive threats from miscreants but the government does
not insure their security.

PMA Karachi General Secretary Dr M Qazi Wasiq told The Nation that the medical
fraternity was under great security threat while many doctors have been killed
in the current year only.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                              May 5, 2005 Thursday

Legal abortion rates steady since '90

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 476 words


Legal abortion rates have remained steady since 1990, and those that are
approved increasingly involve pregnancies resulting from incest, crime or
extramarital relations.

This is one of the findings of the Health Ministry's report, Legal Abortions:
1990-2003, which it released for publication Thursday.

In 2003, the legal abortion rate was 139 per 1,000 live births or 12.2 per 1,000
women aged 15 to 49.

This rate is low compared to those in 18 European countries, which range from
113.5 per 1,000 live births in Greece and 127.8 in Belgium to 579.3 in Hungary
and 1,275.8 in Russia. In nominal figures, 20,075 legal abortions were performed
in 2003.

A total of 21,226 women applied to 22 abortion committees in 22 public hospitals
and in 14 private hospitals and community clinics.

However, the Health Ministry does not provide any figures about illegal
abortions - or even hospital statistics on how many women were admitted to
emergency rooms with complications from illegal abortions.

Since 1990, the rate per 1,000 fertile women of applications to abortion
committees has declined by 23%, the rate of approvals has dropped by 15% and the
rate of actual legal abortions has fallen by 10%.

According to the 1980 Abortion Law, women may apply to an approved abortion
committee if she meets the criteria in any of four categories: the woman is
younger than 17 or over 40; continuing the pregnancy is liable to endanger the
woman's life or her physical or mental condition; the pregnancy results from
relations prohibited by criminal law, incest or from extra-marital relations; or
the fetus is liable to have a physical or mental disability.

In 2003, abortion committees approved 98% of all requests, a rise from 89% in
1990. Over 9,700 legal abortions were performed at approved private hospitals
and clinics.

In 2003, 54% of all legal abortions were due to extramarital/illegal relations
pregnancies; 18% due to danger to maternal health; 17% due to fetal defects; and
11% due to the mother's age.

Compared to 1990, use of the maternal health reason declined 40%, the fetal
defect reason by 23% and maternal age by 14%, but the extramarital/illegal
relations pregnancy reason increased by 16%.

The rate at which women underwent legal abortions remained steady between ages
20 and 39 and declined among teenage and young adult women up to the age of 20.

Legal abortions are carried out earlier than ever before, apparently thanks to
women applying earlier, quicker or more efficient deliberations by committees
and the use of Mifegyne, the abortion pill, which is the preferred method in
public (but not private) hospitals.

Late abortions were almost always performed in public hospitals (government,
health fund or Hadassah) rather than approved private hospitals and clinics -
and in the vast majority of cases, fetal defects that were discovered late were
the reason.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Build new hospital;
You Say Email:letters@liverpoolecho.co.uk

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 231 words


THE vast majority of people in Liverpool support the re-building of the Royal
hospital, even with the funding mechanism known as PFI.

How dare Mr Sam Semoff and a small group of supporters from Keep the NHS Public
decide they know best what we need.

I can't believe we, the people of this great city, can allow these political
activists to threaten this project by their legal challenge. What makes it even
more sick is they are preventing us, honest taxpayers, from having our new
hospital with their legal costs paid for under legal aid, by each of us. That is
a scandal.

I have spoken to many people who are not supporters of PFI, but even they
realise the hospital will not be built unless we go down this route.

We are in danger of losing this project and the chance of a new hospital because
of the ideology of a small unelected and undemocratic group.

Will Mr Semoff be content and happy when the PFI is cancelled, not because of
his no-hope legal challenge, but because the delays he has caused has led to the
scheme running out of time? We will then be stuck with those existing, crumbling
buildings for many decades, no PFI, but no new state of the art hospital to
deliver good health care.

Mr Semoff says it's more than about buildings. Come off it Sam, stop dragging
the people of this city into your crazy world of sad politics.

Reginald Hyland, Liverpool city centre

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                November 8, 2005

Anger over legal bid to halt threat to Frenchay

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 477 words


Health bosses have reacted with dismay to a legal bid to halt the downgrading of
Frenchay hospital. South Gloucestershire Council yesterday voted to seek advice
on mounting a High Court challenge to Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt's refusal
to re-examine a planned shake-up of city hospitals which would see Southmead
Hospital upgraded while Frenchay withers.

Sonia Mills, chief executive of North Bristol NHS Trust, which runs both
Frenchay and Southmead hospitals, said the move could delay the work by up to
two years - and add at least £36 millon to the costs involved.

And Bristol North West MP Doug Naysmith branded the council's refusal to give up
the fight to save Frenchay as "crazy" as the legal bid was bound to fail.

Taking legal advice is likely to cost the council up to £2,000. Taking the case
to the High Court is expected to cost £10,000 and, if the council were to lose
and be ordered to pay all of the legal costs, it could be landed with a bill of
more than £100,000.

Ms Mills said the judicial review South Gloucestershire Council is seeking would
take up to 10 months.

She said: "Our timetable is deliberately designed to ensure that we are at the
front of the queue of 25 major hospital schemes in other cities throughout
England which are at a similar stage of development.

"It is very clear that schemes which are delayed and fail to attract PFI
interest have to restart their process. A six to 10-month judicial review
process is likely to lead to a delay of 12 or even 24 months." Ms Mills said
delaying the scheme would drive up costs by reducing competition among potential
contractors as they became committed to other schemes.

She said: "All of this would impact upon the scale of what could be built." Mr
Naysmith said: "As far as I know, it has already been said that a judicial
review will not succeed, that the way the decision is made, it's very unlikely
that this will succeed.

"I think it's crazy that the cabinet is spending taxpayers' money on something
that will not succeed. It's time some of the local politicians in South
Gloucestershire stopped playing politics with something so important and decided
to have a great new hospital for South Gloucestershire and the whole of the
Bristol area." Pam Ward, secretary of the Joint Union Committee representing
North Bristol NHS Trust staff, was also worried by the delay South
Gloucestershire Council's legal bid will cause.

At yesterday's meeting, the council's cabinet was told it should know in about
three weeks whether it had a strong enough legal case to challenge the Bristol
Health Services Plan, a £500 million shake-up of hospital services in the
region.

The council's three-party ruling cabinet voted by seven votes to two in favour
of seeking legal advice over a judicial review, with Labour opposing the move.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


                              179 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 7, 2002

Tragic mum wins payout over lawyers' claim delay;Firm ordered to pay (pounds)
500 after bitter cash battle following death of son in hospital

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 514 words


A MOTHER whose son died after being admitted to hospital has won a legal fight
against her former lawyers.

Grace Devine has been awarded (pounds) 500 compensation from law firm Ross
Harper after a dispute about proposed legal action against a Glasgow hospital.

After her complaint to the Law Society of Scotland was upheld, she is now
considering suing the Glasgow firm as she believes it hampered her bid for
justice.

Mrs Devine's son James, 23, died in the city's Western Infirmary 10 days after
being admitted for a drugs overdose in 1998.

The keep-fit fanatic, who lived with his mum in Braeside Street, Maryhill, was a
keen weightlifter and went on outward bound courses.

He was rushed to hospital after falling unconscious when he took an overdose,
although his mother insists he was not a drug addict.

Relatives who visited him on the night of his admission to hospital claim he was
sitting up, talking and was showing signs of recovery.

But later he was moved to intensive care and put on a ventilator because his
oxygen levels were low. His condition deteriorated rapidly and doctors said
there was nothing they could do.

Medics said at the time he was suffering from adult respiratory distress
syndrome, which can be caused by several factors, including lung infection.

Mrs Devine believes James may have died from an infection picked up in the
hospital.

Law firm Ross Harper was appointed by the family to get access to James's
medical records four years ago.

His mother wanted to take action against the Western Infirmary, but didn't lodge
a legal claim before the three-year time limit was up.

She claimed lawyers didn't apply for legal aid for her and left it too late to
tell her they didn't think she had a case.

In a written ruling, the Law Society of Scotland ordered Ross Harper to pay her
(pounds) 500 compensation for "inadequate professional service".

The watchdog said lawyers took too long to advise Mrs Devine they thought she

didn't have a case against the hospital and would not be granted legal aid.

She was only told in October 2001 - a month before the three-year deadline for
taking legal action would expire.

Mrs Devine has also written to the Scottish Legal Services Ombudsman, which is
looking into her complaint, and said: "I was relying on them to help me get
answers as to why James died. Now I will never know as I can't raise a case
against the hospital.

"They had three years to lodge a complaint and they failed."

Two years ago Mrs Devine lost her fight for an official investigation into her
son's death after the procurator-fiscal ruled there would be no fatal accident
inquiry.

An expert from Glasgow Royal Infirmary was called to give a second opinion on
James's condition before he died. The consultant is understood to have cleared
the Western of any blame for the tragedy.

A Ross Harper spokesman said: "A payment was awarded for inconvenience rather
than the loss of compensation had a claim been lodged. We felt there was no case
to answer against the hospital."

LOAD-DATE: October 08, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MOTHER AND SON: James and battling mum Grace

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              180 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            June 14, 1997, Saturday

Cracks form in secrecy of hospital talks

BYLINE: CHRISTINA HEADRICK

SECTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



A year and a half into a legal battle between the city and Helen Ellis  Memorial
Hospital, some of those involved are wondering whether keeping  settlement talks
secret serves the public's interest.

At two recent meetings, the city-appointed Health Facilities Authority
considered the need for secrecy.

"Settlement proposals may be something the public is entitled to hear,"  said
John Tarapani, chairman of the authority, which issued bonds for Helen  Ellis
and sublets the city-owned land and buildings to the hospital  foundation.

"These are public issues that should be discussed in public," he said.  "That's
been our position all along."

George Psaras, a former Tarpon Springs mayor on the authority, agreed.

"There's nothing that should be kept from the public when you're dealing  with
public assets," he said. "Right now, there's too many rumors that  aren't true
because people don't have all the information."

The city, the authority and the private foundation that runs Helen Ellis  are
entangled in lawsuits to clarify the proper relationship among the three.

The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation contends that the city and authority
have overstepped their roles. The foundation sued in late 1995 to clarify
questions about its lease with the city.

The city and authority had been dissatisfied since 1994, when the  foundation
tried to partner with Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. without the  city's input.
The city has countersued the foundation to seek more control  over the hospital
property it owns.

Yet, both sides now say they want to settle the legal mess before it goes  to
trial.

For months, the city and hospital foundation have held secret negotiations.  The
talks have been more frequent in the past month.

The legal negotiations are exempt from state open government laws. When the
litigation is settled, everything will become public record.

One way to settle the case would be to revise the hospital's lease so  everyone
is satisfied. The city also could sell its interest in the hospital  to the
foundation and get out of the health care business.

On the advice of City Attorney John Hubbard, the Health Facilities  Authority
agreed this week that its discussions about the dispute will remain  secret -
for now.

"We are in litigation with a private group who isn't subject to the same  rules
that we are," Hubbard said. "That's the really unfair part of this  thing. The
other guys would have a really huge advantage over us, unless we  also have the
ability to discuss everything in private."

Hospital attorneys said they were "cautiously optimistic" that a  settlement
would be reached, but wanted to negotiate without public scrutiny.

"Discussions are at a sensitive stage," said Dale Webber, a Tampa lawyer  with
Buchanan Ingersoll Professional Corp. "It would be difficult to go  forward if
they weren't confidential."

The hospital has gone out of its way to keep everything secret, city  officials
said.

A month ago, hospital attorneys asked the city to sign an agreement  promising
that any hospital documents turned over during litigation be kept  confidential.
The agreement was contrary to state laws that require city  records to be open,
City Manager Costa Vatikiotis said.

"There is a difference in mind-set how we conduct business and how they  do,"
Vatikiotis said. "There are very few things under Florida law that can  ever be
confidential in city governments. The hospital has privacy concerns  tied to
competition in the local health care market. But we could not sign any  such
agreement."

Meanwhile, the legal bills continue to mount. Although the hospital  considers
its costs confidential, the city's expenses are not. To date, Tarpon  Springs
has spent about $ 292,500 on legal fees, copying and court reporters to  battle
the hospital. The Health Facilities Authority has spent about $ 75,000  in legal
fees, Tarapani said.

"We're not the ones who sued in the first place," Vatikiotis said. "This  is the
cost of the city protecting itself. It's a very expensive case."

- Times files were used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; (1989) City Attorney John Hubbard

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              181 of 993 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Cape Fear Valley, FirstHealth continue battle over hospitals in Hoke County

BYLINE: Jennifer Calhoun, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 741 words


June 21--RAEFORD -- FirstHealth of the Carolinas on Monday night again asked
Cape Fear Valley Health System to drop legal appeals and get on with the
business of building hospitals in Hoke County.

The request was made during the county's regular Board of Commissioners meeting.

FirstHealth Chief Executive Officer Charles Frock said he would be willing to
drop plans for a 65-bed hospital and build an eight-bed hospital in the county,
if Cape Fear Valley would drop appeals and start building its proposed 41-bed
hospital.

Otherwise, Frock said, the legal battles and construction could eventually delay
a hospital in the county for 10 years.

But Cape Fear Valley Chief Executive Officer Mike Nagowski didn't seem
interested in FirstHealth's proposal.

Nagowski said that Cape Fear Valley's proposed 41-bed hospital would be better
for the county than FirstHealth's proposed eight-bed hospital.

In addition, he said, an eight-bed hospital isn't financially sustainable, and
that -- with so few beds -- it was meant to be a stop-off for patients who would
ultimately be taken to FirstHealth Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst.

Chairman Tony Hunt said he asked the health systems to attend the meeting
because of growing frustration in the county over the legal bickering between
the two companies.

"All of the commissioners have been getting phone calls and people stopping us
on the streets, asking us, 'When are we going to get a hospital?'" Hunt said
after the meeting.

Pointed questions

Hunt grilled the CEOs during the meeting, with Nagowski getting the brunt of the
questions.

Hunt noted that the state's Department of Health and Human Services had advised
the county could support two hospitals, and questioned why Nagowski would be
against it.

"Why wouldn't we do that?" Hunt said. "What are you protecting Hoke County
from?"

Nagowski said he was concerned that an eight-bed hospital wasn't sufficient for
a growing county the size of Hoke.

"If someone shows up, and there are only eight beds, where do they go if they're
full?" Nagowski said.

Hunt fired back.

"They go down the road," he said, "to your 41-bed hospital."

Hunt later added: "I understand your concern for FirstHealth ... but that
liability is on them. Why would you care? Why would that be a problem?"

Hunt asked Frock, who is retiring at the end of the year, whether FirstHealth
would still be committed to the project after he left.

Frock said the health system's board of directors was fully committed to the
project and would continue it in his absence.

Hunt asked Frock why the health system hadn't purchased land, yet, while Cape
Fear Valley Health System had already purchased land on U.S. 401.

Frock said that the health system had a purchase option, but was still working
to resolve some infrastructure issues.

It had nothing to do with lack of commitment to the county, he said.

Hunt said the board may end up drafting a formal resolution to let the state and
the two health systems know where they stand.

The meeting was a way to ask some questions the residents have been asking him
and other board members, he said.

"We're just sick and tired of all the legal maneuvering," Hunt said.

Hunt said he didn't want to drive down the road in five years and still see no
hospital.

Or worse, he said, sick patients who had to be driven 30 to 40 minutes for
emergency services "with their life hanging in the balance."

"That's what the board is concerned about, and that's what the citizens are
concerned about," he said. "That's what we want to convey to you tonight."

Legal battle

The two health systems have been locked in legal battles since 2009, when both
companies submitted requests to build hospitals in the county.

Both hospitals have been approved -- FirstHealth for an eight-bed facility and
Cape Fear Valley for a 41-bed facility.

On June 15, FirstHealth submitted an additional request with the state to build
a 65-bed hospital in the county.

The measure was taken after the state said the Cumberland-Hoke medical services
needed 65 additional beds.

Staff writer Jennifer Calhoun can be reached at calhounj@fayobserver.com or
486-3595.

To see more of The Fayetteville Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.fayettevillenc.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Fayetteville
Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110621-FY-Cape-Fear-Valley-FirstHealth-continue-battle-over-hospitals
-in-Hoke-County-0621-20110621

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2011 The Fayetteville Observer


                              182 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday

Union, Enloe argue over legal bills

BYLINE: By LARRY MITCHELL - Staff writer

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 789 words


The union planning a strike at Enloe Medical Center next week has long claimed
the hospital spends a fortune on anti-labor attorneys.

On Thursday, the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) passed out
leaflets at Enloe saying it had discovered the hospital has spent even more on
legal fees than it had imagined.

But Laura Hennum, spokesperson for Enloe, said the union had misunderstood tax
documents and was making false claims about the hospital's spending.

It's "an inaccurate statement to say we spent millions," she said in a telephone
interview Thursday.

For more than three years, the SEIU has been trying to win the right to
represent about 600 service workers, including certified nursing assistants
(CNAs). In April 2004, workers voted for the union by a narrow margin, but Enloe
challenged the vote, arguing the outcome was invalidated by irregularities.

Enloe pressed its challenge at various administrative levels, which required the
work of its legal consultant, Foley and Lardner of San Francisco.

The union has argued Enloe is wasting money on legal fees   funds that should
have gone for patient care.

Dana Simon, an SEIU labor representative, said he and other union officials
thought Enloe had spent more than $1 million trying to overturn the election
outcome. However, he said, when they examined tax documents filed by Enloe they
realized the hospital had spent much more than that.

It's "really obscene," Simon said.

He said Enloe's last available tax record, for 2004, showed the hospital paid
Foley and Lardner $964,968. And that was in just one year, he said.

Clearly, Enloe had paid "multiple millions" to the firm to fight the SEIU, he
said. He added Foley and Lardner specialize in labor law, so Enloe couldn't
truthfully claim the money went for anything but battling the union.

However, Hennum said Enloe uses Foley and Lardner for all kinds of legal issues
not just labor matters.

She said only a small part of the $964,968 paid to the law firm in 2004 went for
work relating to the SEIU. The lawyers worked on a number of matters for Enloe,
including the hospital's dealings with another union, which represents
registered nurses, contracts with physicians and issues relating to Enloe's
expansion.

She said it shouldn't surprise anyone that Enloe pays lawyers as much as it does
because the hospital faces many complex legal issues.

Simon said Thursday morning union members passed out leaflets to employees and
doctors at the hospital detailing what it had learned about Enloe's payments to
Foley and Lardner.

In its latest move, Enloe appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington,
D.C., to invalidate the election. A hearing is set for Feb. 20.

Recently, Enloe's board of trustees announced plans to lay off scores of
workers, including many CNAs. Hospital leaders said the cuts are necessary
because Enloe's expenses are rising faster than its income.

The SEIU responded to the layoff announcement by demanding that Enloe bargain
over the plan to cut jobs. When hospital officials declined to negotiate, the
union called a one-day strike, which is scheduled for Wednesday.

Hennum said Enloe has plans for various contingencies, including strikes. She
said patients will not notice any reduction in the quality of care on Wednesday.

Responding to questions from the Enterprise-Record, she said there will be no
delays or cancellations of surgeries which are scheduled for Wednesday at the
hospital.

She was asked if any of the employees likely to go on strike worked in the
emergency room and if Enloe had plans to cover for them if they did walk out.
Hennum said she didn't know which workers would participate in the strike, but
that the hospital has replacements lined up for all who do take part.

Two unions represent workers at Enloe. The California Nurses Association
represents registered nurses and SEIU represents food-service and house-cleaning
employees. The latter groups are not employed by Enloe but work for Compass,
which has a contract with the hospital.

Hennum said both union contracts contain provisions prohibiting employees from
taking part in a "sympathy strike," where workers refuse to cross another
union's picket line.

"We would hope they would honor their contracts," she said. "We're relying on
them to come to work."

Staff writer Larry Mitchell can be reached at 896-7759 or lmitchell@chicoer.com.

BACKGROUND: Enloe Medical Center and the Service Employees International Union
(SEIU) are battling over the results of a 2004 election.

WHAT'S NEW: On Thursday, the union distributed leaflets at the hospital charging
Enloe has spent millions on the fight, a claim a hospital official denied.

WHAT'S NEXT: Angered over impending layoffs, the union plans a one-day strike on
Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                  2ND Edition

NEW pounds 451M ROYAL 'WILL BE BUILT';
Campaigner drops legal challenge

BYLINE: LIZA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 501 words


ROYAL Liverpool Hospital bosses today said they were "delighted" after a legal
challenge threatening its pounds 451m rebuild project was withdrawn.

They confirmed the path was now clear for the new hospital to be built.

Campaign group Keep Our NHS Public (KONP) was due to drag Royal bosses and the
department of health into the high court later this week.

But the group has now dropped the case.

KONP was against the use of private finance initiative (PFI) cash for the
project, which members said would leave the region with crippling debts and
could impact on future health services.

Tony Bell, chief executive at the Royal, said: "We are absolutely delighted to
hear this legal challenge is now over.

"We are sure the people of Merseyside, who have given so much support to the new
Royal, will be pleased to hear this news.

"We can now press ahead with the exciting task of working with our three bidders
to create a world-class hospital for the people of this city.

"We can also continue with our plans for the Liverpool BioCampus, which will
attract significant investment and development opportunities for the whole
city."

The hospital will narrow the list of bidders set to build the hospital down to
two in the coming months.

Liverpool council leader Joe Anderson said: "It is fantastic news. Now we can
get on with building a hospital which is fit for purpose, creating jobs and
apprenticeships."

At the end of January, leading campaigner Sam Semoff was told legal aid for his
case was being withdrawn by the Legal Services Commission and as a result he
withdrew the action.

The high court hearing, scheduled for Friday, was itself an appeal after Mr
Semoff 's initial application for a judicial review was thrown out.

It was the second time Mr Semoff had applied for a judicial review in a saga
which has run for two years.

The total legal bill for the challenges is estimated to be well into six
figures.

Health chiefs also predict each month the hospital was delayed added pounds 1m
to its cost.

The Royal estimates the project was put back by around six months, with a
finished hospital expected in late 2016.

KONP claimed the PFI scheme would cost at least pounds 1.24bn over 34 years,
while public finance would cost pounds 730m.

But health chiefs said these figures were not accurate.

A statement from KONP said: "Sam Semoff has principles but very little money.

"Very reluctantly, on legal advice, he has withdrawn his case.

"The campaign group Keep Our NHS Public Merseyside congratulates Sam on his
magnificent battle.

"Paying for PFI will be the top priority, coming before clinical need.

"Money will flow from the NHS to banks and private investors.

"The excess debt will force cuts in NHS services across Merseyside for the next
generation, pushing patients towards private healthcare."

Mr Semoff added: "Now the scheme's current costs are known, I call on directors
to formally request the government to allow public finance for Liverpool's new
hospital."

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PRINCIPLES BUT LITTLE MONEY: Sam Semoff has withdrawn the case

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 993 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2017 LexisNexis, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.,
                              All Rights Reserved
                     LexisNexis® Corporate Affiliations[TM]

                                August 28, 2017

                    Southeast Missouri Hospital Association

                                 1701 Lacey St
                           Cape Girardeau,  MO 63701
                                 United States


MSA: 16020 - Cape Girardeau-Jackson, MO-IL

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (573) 334-4822
URL: www.sehealth.org

TWITTER: www.twitter.com/sehealthmo
YOUTUBE: www.youtube.com/semohospital

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY IDENTIFIERS * * * * * * * * * *
DCA NUMBER: 2212035

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
LEGAL STATUS: PRIVATE
ORGANIZATION TYPE: Private
EMPLOYEES:
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES:  2,348

IMPORT:  NO
EXPORT:  NO

DOING BUSINESS AS:  d/b/a SoutheastHEALTH

* * * * * * * * * * CORPORATE STRUCTURE * * * * * * * * * *

CORPORATE HIERARCHY

* * * * * * * * * * EXECUTIVES * * * * * * * * * *

OFFICER             TITLE TYPE          ROLE(S)             EMAIL/SOCIAL MEDIA
Dan Berry, VP-Legal Executive           Vice President
Affairs                                 Legal/Legal Affairs
Hugh King, VP & CFO Executive           Vice President      LINKEDIN:
                                        Chief Financial     www.linkedin.com/pu
                                        Officer             b/hugh-king/37/435/
                                                            97
James P. Limbaugh,  Executive           Executive Vice
Exec VP-Plng & Bus                      President
Dev                                     Planning
                                        Business
                                        Development
Kenneth W. Bateman, Executive           President
Pres & CEO                              Chief Executive
                                        Officer
Dennis E. Means,    Executive           Chief Medical
Chief Medical                           Officer
Officer
Lincoln Scott,      Executive           Vice President
VP-HR                                   Human Resources
Mike Nichols, CIO   Executive           Chief Information
                                        Officer
Judy Aslin, VP &    Executive           Vice President      LINKEDIN:
Chief Nursing                                               www.linkedin.com/pu
Officer                                                     b/judy-aslin/27/380
                                                            /a06
Sly Moore, CFO      Executive           Chief Financial
                                        Officer

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *
Southeast Missouri Hospital Association (d/b/a SoutheastHEALTH) is headquartered
in Cape Girardeau, MO. It is a network of facilities, which provides a regional
system of healthcare services throughout a multi-state region. The network
serves patients in southeast Missouri, as well as residents in parts of southern
Illinois, western Kentucky and northern Arkansas.

INDUSTRY TYPE: Hospital Services

* * * * * * * * * * MARKET AND INDUSTRY * * * * * * * * * *
NAICS CODES:
622110 - General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
PRIMARY SIC:
8062 - General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
SECONDARY SIC:
8069 - Specialty Hospitals, Except Psychiatric (except childrens and substance
abuse hospitals)

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *
FISCAL YEAR END: 12/31

SALES:  USD 800,000,000 - USD 899,999,999

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017


                              185 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 27, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM;
Maternity-Bed Persists

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 7;  Column 4;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 211 words


Despite low occupancy rates at Harlem's maternity units and a recent legal
setback, two civil rights organizations are continuing their battle to restore a
full ward at St. Luke's-Roosevel Hospital, at 114th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.

Part of the unit, which in 1991 was supposed to be moved to 59th Street as part
of an overall merger of St. Luke's and Roosevelt, was kept at 114th Street after
protests that Harlem could not afford to lose the beds.

The Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Educationa Fund and the NAACP Legal Defense
Fund, which recently lost an appeal to contest the matter on civil rights
grounds, are now taking their complaint to Federal health authorities.

They insist that the shift of beds unfairly deprive poor neighborhoods of vital
services.

But it is not clear how strong an argument the groups can make. Occupancy
figures at St. Luke's show that from April to December 1993, the 22 beds had an
occupancy rate of only 59.5 percent. The hospital said that half those patients
came from outside the Harlem area.

And maternity occupancy rates compiled by the State Department of Health showed
a sharp decrease at Harlem Hospital Center, dropping from 73.2 percent in 1990
to 54.2 percent in the first nine months of 1993.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             April 14, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hospitals spent £45m on payouts over negligence

BYLINE: Alison Stacey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 527 words


CASH-STRAPPED hospitals in the West Midlands have had to fork out £45 MILLION in
just one year on clinical negligence claims.

The Heart of England NHS Trust, which runs Heartlands, Good Hope and Solihull
hospitals, had the biggest bill in the region - £13.9 million for 2013-14.

The Trust also paid more for lawyers than any other group in England, coughing
up £1.5 million in legal fees.

Payouts include patients of surgeon Ian Paterson, who carried out unlicensed and
unnecessary operations on hundreds of women at Solihull Hospital.

It is understood that one former breast cancer patient received a payout of
£270,000 alone, with at least 157 others already settled.

In another case, Hayley Sanders received a five-figure sum from the Trust in
October 2013.

The young mum needed an urgent hysterectomy after Heartlands Hospital discharged
her with an untreated infection after the birth of her son, Jayden, in December
2009 - when she was just 19 years old.

Hospital staff performed multiple internal examinations but failed to act on
four high temperature readings following complications on December 27, 2009.

Hayley was discharged, but just two days later she was rushed back to hospital
and spent days in the high dependency unit.

She fell into a coma as her body was taken over by a bacterial infection.
Doctors were left with no choice but to perform a complete hysterectomy to save
her life.

The shocking figures, published by the NHS Litigation Authority, show the Trust
had to spend another £3.6 million paying claimants' legal costs and a further
£8.8 million paying damages in cases it lost.

The costs are slightly less than the previous year, where the bill was £14.3
million which included payouts to lawyers, claimants, and paying claimant's
legal fees. But the Trust insisted that the figures did not reflect the quality
of patient care at its hospitals, and the huge sum was largely due to claims
against surgeon Ian Paterson.

Andrew Catto, deputy chief executive and executive medical director, Heart of
England NHS Foundation Trust, said: "Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust is
one of the largest Trusts in the region, treating over 1.2 million patients
every year.

"Whilst we regret the significant impact that the process of taking legal action
can have on patients, the majority of these litigation costs account for the
pro-active approach that the Trust has taken to compensate the NHS patients of
Mr Ian Paterson.

"This includes increased legal costs for the Trust in defending the claims
concerning private sector treatment performed by Mr Paterson.

"We continue to be committed to providing the highest standards of patient care
and are taking steps to make our care safer and thereby reduce the cost of
medical litigation."

The Dudley Group of Hospitals trust, which runs Russells Hall Hospital, had rthe
second largest legal bill at £5.9 million - but the Trust insisted that the
payouts were from cases as far back as 1996.

¦ See the full list of payouts at www.birminghammail.co.uk

'' The majority of these litigation costs account for the proactive approach
that the Trust has taken to compensate the NHS patients of Mr Ian Paterson
ANDREW CATTO

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hayley Sanders from Bartley Green received a five-figure payout after a
hospital mistake ¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            January 15, 1999 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Outrage over killer's list;
Premier vows to change FoI law after triple murderer gets names of 51 nurses

BYLINE: LYALL JOHNSON and SANDRA McKAY with AAP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words


A Melbourne hospital has been accused of incompetence and betraying staff after
a convicted triple murderer was given the names of 51 nurses as part of a bid to
clear his name.

The Premier, Mr Jeff Kennett, has also expressed horror and vowed to review
Victoria's freedom of information laws after Ashley Mervyn Coulston's successful
application for the names of the nurses, all from Frankston Hospital.

The names were given to Coulston without the nurses' knowledge after a series of
applications to the state's main civil tribunal.

Coulston, 42, is serving a life sentence for the execution-style murders of Anne
Smerdon and Kerryn Henstridge, 22, and Peter Dempsey, 27, who were found bound,
gagged and shot through the head at their rented Burwood home in July 1992.

Coulston has always protested his innocence, claiming he was visiting his
partner in Frankston Hospital at the time of the killings. His application for
the nurses' names was ostensibly part of a bid to prove his alibi and get his
case reopened.

One nurse whose name was given to Coulston said yesterday that she was "very
scared and very angry". But the nurse, who declined to be named, said she
understood Coulston's purported motives in seeking the names.

"We feel we have been denied any control about how our names will be used. We
feel betrayed by the hospital, and scared about what the future may hold," she
said.

Coulston was granted access to the names on 23 November last year on appeal to
the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) after two applications
under freedom of information were denied by the hospital.

The matter has only just come to light because the nurses were not told of the
issue until last week.

Amid uproar over the case yesterday, it was revealed that:

* The hospital had no legal representation at the first appeal hearing, relying
instead on a doctor to argue its case against the release of the names.

* Coulston represented himself in a tribunal hearing via video link from Barwon
Prison.

* Hospital management did not notify staff about the case until a memo was
issued to one charge nurse, who did not receive it until last week because she
was on holidays.

VCAT and Frankston Hospital immediately came under fire from the Australian
Nursing Federation and Mr Kennett, who has ordered reviews of VCAT procedures
and freedom of information laws.

Mr Kennett described it as the "most outrageous incident I have heard about". He
said he had had concerns about both VCAT and the Freedom of Information Act for
some time.

The Australian Nursing Federation accused the hospital of not properly
protecting the privacy of its nurses by failing to send legal representation to
the appeal. The federation's Victorian branch secretary, Ms Belinda Morieson,
said she was "physically appalled by the incompetence shown by the hospital".

The Attorney-General, Mrs Jan Wade, said it was unfortunate that the hospital
had no legal representation at the case. She also said its failure to appeal
against the decision meant it would not be reviewed by the Supreme Court.

The chairman of the Mornington Peninsula Health Care Network, which administers
the Frankston Hospital, Mr Bob Polk, said the hospital had fought for two years
to try to stop the release of the list, and it was "terribly easy in hindsight"
to criticise.

Mr Polk said that on its earlier legal advice, the hospital had been "supremely
confident" of winning the case and had not bothered to send a lawyer to the
hearing.

He said the hospital was "shattered" when the tribunal ruled against it, and did
not seek further legal advice before releasing the nurses' roster to Coulston.

"Jan Wade is entitled to say it was a pity, and maybe it was, but the decision
(not to appeal to the Supreme Court) was made with the best available
information at that time," he said.

The president of Liberty Victoria, Ms Felicity Hampel, QC, said Mr Kennett's
attack on the tribunal undermined its independence and tainted the judiciary.

"This carries with it a very real threat that if members don't decide the law in
the way the Premier likes, their appointment won't be reviewed," she said.

The shadow attorney-general, Mr Rob Hulls, accused Mr Kennett of deliberately
using the case "an excuse to shut down FoI, which he's been wanting to do for a
long time". -- With AAP

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashley Mervyn Coulston: serving a life term for the 1992 triple
murder in Burwood.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Hospital threatens 'bed blockers' with legal action

BYLINE: Alex Winter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


SO-CALLED hospital 'bed blockers' could soon face legal action if they
monopolise spaces needed by sick patients.

But the boss of a Dorset watchdog has said 'threatening' patients will not solve
the problems many face.

Katie Whiteside of Royal Bournemouth Hospital claimed too many families were
refusing to take their relatives home when they were fit to go.

She said one family asked the hospital to "keep hold" of a relative while they
took a two-week holiday in Turkey.

On Wednesday, there were 70 patients at the facility who were medically fit to
leave.

Around half had a safe place to go - a family home or care home - the hospital
claimed.

Ms Whiteside said: "We have relatives coming back telling us they don't like the
decor of care homes, or they don't like the member of staff who met them at the
door."

She added that new patients, some seriously ill, may have to wait in corridors
or on trolleys in A&E while routine operations are cancelled because of the lack
of beds.

The hospital trust plans to give a week's notice to patients fit enough, who
have a safe place to go, and could even evict them if they refuse or families
refuse to take them.

If a case went to court, families and patients could be liable for legal costs
of up to £50,000.

A hospital spokesman said: "Once medically fit for discharge, an acute hospital
environment is not in the patient's best interest."

But Martyn Webster, manager of Healthwatch Dorset, the local health and care
watchdog, said: "Threatening patients with legal action won't help solve the
problems many people face when leaving hospital. People need to work together to
sort this - the hospital working with patient's families, carers, friends, and
other people like social services, community groups and charities to give
patients the support they need when they leave hospital."

He added: "In our latest report there are comments from local people who felt
under pressure to leave hospital before they were ready."

A spokes-man at Poole Hospital, who said there are currently 48 on its wards
despite being deemed medically fit for discharge still on the wards.

"The situation is exacerbated by the fact that we are also dealing with high
numbers of emergency admissions," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             April 22, 2011 Friday
                               N-j Final Edition

Hospital board advised it could sue 2nd lawyer

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 569  words

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH


NEW SMYRNA BEACH -- With a target date set for Bert Fish Medical Center toits
relationship with nonprofit Adventist Health System on May 31, questions emerged
Thursday on whether more than one lawyer should be liable for losses stemming
from the voided merger.

The oncoming split is court-ordered because the merger was the result of 21
meetings over 16 months closed to the public in violation of the state Sunshine
Law.

Because of the subsequent attempt to cure the Sunshine violations and a failed
defense of those attempts, the Southeast Volusia Hospital District already has
$1.5 million in legal bills that could hurt its ability to provide indigent care
at the New Smyrna Beach hospital it oversees.

Some lawyers have said the hospital district's losses in the botched merger
could reach into the tens of millions, potentially costing property taxpayers in
Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a sliver of Port Orange.

The board of the hospital district has been interviewing legal firms to recover
those expenses through a legal malpractice claim against the lawyer who
erroneously advised them to close those meetings.

That lawyer, Jim Heekin, resigned from representing the board last month after
more than 20 years with the district.

But former Volusia County Sheriff Bob Vogel, who lives in Edgewater, said board
members should consider whether their current legal representative, whose
defense of the merger failed in court, should also be liable.

Orlando Attorney Darryl Bloodworth continues to represent the district in
hashing out the terms by which the hospital will become unwound from Adventist
Health. And one of the associates of his firm, Kelly Sullivan, has been chosen
as the district's day-to-day lawyer to replace Heekin.

But Vogel said the board shouldn't have done that. From a copy of Circuit Judge
Richard Graham's decision nullifying the merger, Vogel read a part that included
Bloodworth in the list of people who should have advised the board to take
action that would've "removed one of the biggest clouds hanging over" the
district's costly attempt to cure the Sunshine Law violations. That cloud was
the continuing partnership with Adventist Health as the district board met
publicly to pick a new partner, which turned out to be Adventist Health, the
judge wrote.

As a result, Bloodworth should not be participating in the selection of the
lawyer who will press the legal malpractice claim, Vogel said.

You've got these tentacles of Jim Heekin right here," Vogel said, pointing out
that Bloodworth was part of the team.

Bloodworth addressed the board and defended the omission.

There seemed to be no reason to set aside a transaction that we thought had been
entered into lawfully," he said.

But he said that the list of questions he prepared for potential litigants in
the malpractice case in no way seeks to limit whom the board will choose. He
said he is willing to stand up to the scrutiny of another lawyer looking at his
liability in the matter.

I am not concerned about being sued," he said. "They should look at it. I would
welcome them to look at it."

Vogel, whose wife, Jeannie, once served on the board, got up for one last
comment directed at Bloodworth.

The judge wrote your name in there," he said.

Board members would not comment on the exchange. But Jon Kaney, an attorney for
the Bert Fish Foundation, which sued to stop the merger, didn't want to say
anything definitive.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              190 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                   Kansas City Daily Record (Kansas City, MO)

                              May 12, 2008 Monday

Attorneys team up with doctors to help the indigent

BYLINE: Kelly Weise and Aaron Bailey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1082  words


A law professor in St. Louis is trying to launch a program to help poor families
whose legal problems are also affecting their health.

But even as the groundwork gets laid for that effort, similar initiatives have
been in place and thriving across the state in the Kansas City.

Ellen Lawton, executive director of the Medical-Legal Partnership for Children
in Boston, said programs are growing around the country, as medical
professionals realize that legal assistance can benefit not only their patients
but their hospitals' bottom lines.

Programs can take many shapes, but typically a lawyer, or several, will work
closely with a local hospital or clinic that treats the poor, she said. The
lawyer gets involved when patients come for treatment to see if there are legal
problems as well.

"The whole idea is to achieve legal solutions to medical problems," said Katie
Lamb, an attorney with Legal Aid of Western Missouri who co-heads the medical-
legal partnership at Children's Mercy Hospital in Kansas City.

For instance, Lamb has helped the family of a child being treated for asthma
file housing complaints to improve the child's breathing environment. While
medication can help suppress symptoms, Lamb said, sometimes the problem's root
can be better fought in a courtroom.

"With this kind of access to clients, we can do something preventative before it
reaches crisis level," she said. "It's great to see kids getting better without
having to just up the dose. "

Benefiting all sides

The national partnership program was started in 1993 by Dr. Barry Zuckerman, a
pediatrician who got frustrated seeing sick children get treated only to return
to homes lacking heat or basic meals.

"The remedies they needed were not traditional medical remedies," Lawton said.
"His epiphany was the problems they have were actually legal problems" and the
specialists to call were not trained in medicine but in law.

Areas of assistance can range from helping get people on the Medicaid health
care program, which allows the hospital to recoup at least part of the cost of
treatment, to forcing a landlord to remove lead paint or a school to provide the
occupational therapy that a disabled child needs.

Lawton said it can take a few years, but often hospitals end up chipping in if
not covering the cost to have a lawyer in the building to help patients and also
help get more medical care paid for by outside parties. Legal aid offices also
sometimes relocate an attorney to a hospital or clinic as they often see the
same population.

The Medicaid Appeals Project between Legal Aid of Western Missouri and Truman
Medical Center in Kansas City has been so fiscally successful that the hospital
took over funding responsibility after the program's first year in 2005. The
program identifies hospital clients who were denied Medicaid and links them with
a Legal Aid attorney.

In the program's first two fiscal years, Truman received about $3 million in
Medicaid funds that the hospital would never have seen without the project, said
Lewis Popper, Truman's general counsel. A percentage is then kicked back to
Legal Aid to cover expenses.

"What's so spectacular is that patients who previously didn't go to a doctor
because they couldn't pay now have a card in their pocket saying they can pay,"
Popper said. "So those patients aren't waiting to come to the emergency room
once their problem gets bad, they are coming in to get care, preventative care.
"

Popper said Legal Aid's deputy director, Gregg Lombardi, got the idea off the
ground by placing a paralegal at Truman on a full-time basis. Legal Aid attorney
Effie Day runs the project from the legal end, while paralegal Tracie Griddine
handles the first contact, then refers eligible clients to Legal Aid attorneys.

Popper said he's surprised that more hospitals haven't looked into medical-legal
partnerships, especially for Medicaid appeals. The majority of people seeking
treatment at Truman are indigent, making the partnership ideal for everyone
involved, Popper said.

"I'm not sure why hospitals aren't jumping over each other to do this," he said.
"It's really just a great deal all around. "

The project at Children's Mercy began in September, Lamb said, using the Boston
program as a starting point. More than 150 families have been assisted by Legal
Aid attorneys so far - almost lapping the goal of 88 in six months. Like the
partnership at Truman, the Children's Mercy program was started with a grant
from the Health Care Foundation of Greater Kansas City. But Lamb said they hope
to have the program self-sufficient soon.

The 'right thing to do'

A small pilot program is under way in St. Louis, with hopes of expanding and
making it a permanent fixture.

Today, Tricia Harrison, an assistant clinical professor at Saint Louis
University School of Law, supervises law students who visit once a week at a
Grace Hill health clinic. They typically help families whose children have been
diagnosed with autism or behavior disorders but haven't received the services
they're due from their school district.

Harrison said the students, overseen by law professors, also can help with other
legal matters, such as a grandmother who lacks formal legal custody caring for
children whose parents are in jail.

Last school year, her students had a similar project within Cardinal Glennon
Children's Medical Center.

Harrison said there's a great need for legal assistance, and her group has to
turn cases away because they don't have the time or people to dedicate to them.
And they visit just one clinic, once a week, and typically don't even delve into
insurance matters.

Harrison said the basic idea is to take a "holistic approach" with families.

"If you have legal problems and you're struggling with these problems, it
absolutely will affect your health," she said.

Professor Jesse Goldner is working to raise the funds needed to establish a
program that could include its own office with a paid full-time lawyer along
with a social worker who also could be a grant writer. He also hopes to entice
law firms to chip in funding as well as pro bono time to help with cases.

Goldner also said the concept is a particularly good fit for SLU, which has a
nationally recognized health law program.

"This is a good education program, particularly for a school like ours which
attracts a student body for health law," he said. "Also it's the right thing to
do. I know too many cases in which legal services are not available that if
somebody pushed, these kids could get help. "

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 8, 1998 Thursday

Hospital payment carries condition  Money can't be used to fight restructuring

BYLINE: BY JANE COUTTS Health Policy Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Hospitals cannot pay for their fights against restructuring with the money
handed out yesterday by the Ontario government, a provincial spokeswoman says.

Although part of the $154-million payment to hospitals announced by Health
Minister Elizabeth Witmer is intended to cover legal costs associated with
restructuring, fees for "lawsuits, claims and court challenges" are specifically
excluded from the payments, Lily Weedon said.

Several Ontario hospitals have run up big legal bills fighting the
recommendations of the Health Services Restructuring Commission. Critics say the
money, even if it is not being taken directly from funds intended to care for
patients, could be better spent.

"They'll say it's from parking revenue, or the cafeteria, or whatever, but the
fact is that that money used to go to patients -- to buying equipment or fixing
things," a source at one of the affected hospitals said. "They're just throwing
it away. They can't win."

The biggest legal bill is rumoured to be that of Wellesley Central Hospital in
Toronto. Sources say it has spent $1.6-million to fight its takeover by St.
Michael's Hospital.

Board chairwoman Libby Burnham said that figure was high but refused to say how
much the hospital has spent on its legal challenges or where the money has come
from.

At Women's College Hospital in Toronto, about $100,000 has been spent resisting
the commission's decision that it should merge with Sunnybrook Health Science
Centre and the Orthopedic and Arthritic Hospital.

Much of that money was raised by donations, a hospital spokeswoman said, and the
rest came from deferring capital projects. She was not sure whether medical
equipment or other patient-related expenditures were among those deferrals.

Montfort Hospital in Ottawa, Ontario's only French-language hospital, has spent
about $50,000 or $60,000 resisting the restructuring commission's plans,
president and chief executive Gerald Savoie said.

While the commission originally suggested that the hospital be closed, it later
said Montfort should become a day hospital, with only its maternity and
psychiatric wards permitting overnight stays.

Montfort still hopes to change that decision through negotiation, Mr. Savoie
said, and as yet has not gone to court. The work so far has been financed by the
SOS Montfort campaign or done by volunteers, he said.

The money Ms. Witmer announced is the first instalment of a $2-billion fund
first revealed in the budget last May to help hospitals cover the cost of
restructuring. The biggest share is to go to severance packages for people who
lose their jobs.

The province is paying only 85 per cent of the cost of employee severances and
70 per cent of capital costs.

The hospital share of one-time restructuring costs is expected to be
$700-million.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 12, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

DOCTOR-LAWYERS PONDER DELIVERY-ROOM VIDEOS

Don Colburn

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. Z05; THE CUTTING EDGE

LENGTH: 459 words


As more families seek to videotape the birth of a child, hospitals and doctors
face a delicate question: Is this a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to capture a
family milestone -- or a medically unnecessary intrusion fraught with potential
trouble?

A little of both, say researchers at the University of Iowa College of Medicine
who surveyed members of the American College of Legal Medicine, a group of
medical-legal specialists, about the pros and cons of birth videos. Their
findings appeared in the March issue of the Journal of Family Practice.

"Physicians must balance their patients' desires to film the birth process
against the inherent legal risk," the Iowa researchers concluded. Allowing video
cameras in the delivery room "can have significant negative consequences when
deliveries become unexpectedly complicated," they noted. Pictures that seem
routine to obstetricians, they warned, may appear gruesome to a jury in a
malpractice case.

Yet the existence of a videotape can prevent as well as encourage malpractice
suits, researchers found. As one lawyer noted in the survey, "the mere existence
of a surgery video may be sufficient to dissuade overzealous attorneys from
attempting to 'scare up' easy money" in cases relying on doubtful memories.

An earlier survey of 610 Iowa doctors found that 97 percent of OB-GYNs had
received at least one request for delivery room videotaping; nearly half had
refused such a request, usually because of concern about possible lawsuits.

At most hospitals, permission to videotape a delivery is left to the discretion
of the doctor, depending on the patient's condition. That is the policy at Inova
Fairfax Hospital, Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring and Columbia Hospital for
Women, which lead Washington area hospitals in deliveries in Virginia, Maryland
and the District respectively, hospital spokeswomen said.

One doctor-lawyer responding to the Iowa survey noted that in Tulsa, Okla.,
hospitals have enacted rules limiting use of video cameras in delivery rooms,
and at least one insurer has tried to adopt such a policy statewide. But a ban
on videotaping could offend or disappoint some families enough that they might
switch to another hospital, researchers said.

A better approach, the Iowa team said, is for obstetricians to raise the issue
ahead of time. If the family intends to videotape the delivery, the doctor
should obtain the patient's written consent and inform her that "it may be
necessary to discontinue the videotaping at the physician's discretion," they
advised.

"Since patients are not forgiving of physicians' poor interpersonal skills," the
article noted, "explaining the policy in advance helps avoid confrontations in
the delivery room."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              193 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghampost.co.uk

                       April 13, 2015 Monday 3:55 PM GMT

Negligence claims cost West Midlands hospitals £45m;
The Heart of England NHS Trust, which runs Heartlands, Good Hope and Solihull
hospitals, had the biggest bill in the region - £13.9 million for 2013-14

BYLINE: By Alison Stacey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 489 words


Hospitals in the West Midlands have had to fork out £45 million in just one year
on clinical negligence claims.

The Heart of England NHS Trust, which runs Heartlands, Good Hope and Solihull
hospitals, had the biggest bill in the region - £13.9 million for 2013-14.

The Trust also paid more for lawyers than any other group in England, coughing
up £1.5 million in legal fees.

Payouts include patients of surgeon Ian Paterson, who carried out unlicensed and
unnecessary operations on hundreds of women at Solihull Hospital.

It is understood that one former breast cancer patient received a payout of
£270,000 alone, with at least 157 others already settled.

In another case, Hayley Sanders received a five-figure sum from the Trust in
October 2013.

The young mum needed an urgent hysterectomy after Heartlands Hospital discharged
her with an untreated infection after the birth of her son, Jayden, in December
2009 - when she was just 19 years old.

Hospital staff performed multiple internal examinations but failed to act on
four high temperature readings following complications on December 27, 2009.

Hayley was discharged, but just two days later she was rushed back to hospital
and spent days in the high dependency unit.

She fell into a coma as her body was taken over by a bacterial infection.
Doctors were left with no choice but to perform a complete hysterectomy to save
her life.

The shocking figures, published by the NHS Litigation Authority, show the Trust
had to spend another £3.6 million paying claimants' legal costs and a further
£8.8 million paying damages in cases it lost.

The costs are slightly less than the previous year, where the bill was £14.3
million which included payouts to lawyers, claimants, and paying claimant's
legal fees. But the Trust insisted that the figures did not reflect the quality
of patient care at its hospitals, and the huge sum was largely due to claims
against 'rogue surgeon' Ian Paterson.

Andrew Catto, deputy chief executive and executive medical director, Heart of
England NHS Foundation Trust, said: "Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust is
one of the largest Trusts in the region, treating over 1.2 million patients
every year.

"Whilst we regret the significant impact that the process of taking legal action
can have on patients, the majority of these litigation costs account for the
pro-active approach that the Trust has taken to compensate the NHS patients of
Mr Ian Paterson.

"This includes increased legal costs for the Trust in defending the claims
concerning private sector treatment performed by Mr Paterson.

"We continue to be committed to providing the highest standards of patient care
and are taking steps to make our care safer and thereby reduce the cost of
medical litigation."

The Dudley Group of Hospitals trust, which runs Russells Hall Hospital, had the
second largest legal bill at £5.9 million - but the Trust insisted that the
payouts were from cases as far back as 1996.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBP


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Northlines (India)

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

Legal Services Authority core group visits quake victims at hospital

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: Bhaderwah


Bhaderwah, May 3 -- On the directions of Chief Justice (Patron-in-Chief) and
Executive Chairman J&K State Legal Services Authority, a core group was
constituted by Brij Mohan Gupta, Chairman District Legal Services Authority,
Bhaderwah, District Doda here today as per the scheme provided under Legal
Services Act for Disaster Victims. The core group under the supervision of Brij
Mohan Gupta, Pr. District & Sessions Judge, Bhaderwah and the other members
comprising Kamlesh Pandit, Sub-Judge, Bhaderwah, Meyank Gupta, Munsiff
Bhaderwah, N.P Khajuria Advocate, President Bar Association Bhaderwah, P.K
Parihar Advocate, Abdul Wahid Advocate, Manjit Razdhan Advocate and Sunil Sharma
Advocate Bhaderwah visited the affected people of earth quake in areas of civil
population and hospitals. It was found on visiting SDH Hospital Bhaderwah that
all the patients including earth quake victims were being treated nicely in
temporary make shifts installed in open space of the hospital premises.

On interaction with the victims and hospital staff it came to surface that four
injured earth quake victims were undergoing treatment and whose condition was
stable and likely to be discharged in a day or two. However one attendant Ahsan
Ahmed S/o Abdul Gaffoor Zargar R/o Ghatha Bhaderwah reportedly succumbed due to
cardiac arrest as being a panic victim. On further first hand visit it was found
while taking round of the hospital structure that same appears to be damaged.

Further more the core group at Bhaderwah convened a meeting with the District
Administration, headed by DC Doda for the better implementation of Scheme
(SUPRA) wherein it was given to understand that District Administration being
already seized of the seriousness of the situation has formulated groups at
block level for the whole District of Doda to access the damages caused due to
recent earth quake which has struck in District Doda. Further, a temporary legal
aid clinic under the Chairmanship of Kamlesh Pandit, Chairman Tehsil Legal
Services Authority Bhaderwah has been established in SDH Hospital Bhaderwah to
provide legal services and awareness to the earth quake victims.

The core group members deputed to Tehsil Doda have also reported that three
children from Gandoh area who have suffered injuries due to earth quake are
undergoing treatment in District Hospital Doda. These children are students of
Govt. Primary School Kota (Gandoh).

Further more, the Core Group Members deputed to Tehsil Gandoh and Thathri have
reported substantial damage to the private and government buildings and also
injuries to some victims who are undergoing treatment in concerned hospital.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Northlines. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Northlines
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             May 26, 1999 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

ALP hits at hospital secrecy

BYLINE: SANDRA McKAY, STATE POLITICAL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 461 words


The State Government was accused of obsessive secrecy yesterday for overriding
the Austin Hospital's legal advice to release two sensitive reports on
privatisation.

The Victorian Civil and Administrative Appeals Tribunal earlier this month
ordered the Government to release all financial details on the privatisation of
the Austin and Repatriation Medical Centre on public interest grounds.

The hospital and the department had claimed in the tribunal that releasing the
information would damage the bidding process and have a "substantial adverse
effect on the economy of Victoria".

Parliament was told yesterday that the hospital's legal advice was not to
challenge the tribunal's decision as it would be unsuccessful, but the State
Government has pushed ahead with a Supreme Court appeal.

A spokeswoman for the Health Minister, Mr Rob Knowles, said there was "nothing
sinister" in the Government's action.

"From the hospital's point of view, it doesn't matter to them so much, but from
the Government's point of view we have a very clear cut responsibility to make
sure that the Victorian taxpayer gets the best tendering process and that
sensitive financial data not be publicly available," Ms Serena Williams said.

While the Government was not privy to the hospital's legal advice, Ms Williams
said "we do have clearly different legal perspectives".

The Opposition last year won partial access to the two reports but the
Department of Human Services blanked out sections on projected staff cuts and
the hospital's running costs.

Both reports cast doubt on whether the private sector would have the financial
capacity to run the Austin Repat.

Labor's health spokesman, Mr John Thwaites, said the Government's pressure on
the Austin to challenge the decision showed it was desperate to keep
privatisation details secret until after the next election.

The shadow attorney-general, Mr Rob Hulls, attacked the Government in
parliamentary question time yesterday, saying the Premier had an "obsession with
secrecy and covering up the truth".

He said the Government was breaching the spirit of the Freedom of Information
Act by spending hundreds of thousands of taxpayers' dollars to overturn the
tribunal's decision.

The Premier, Mr Jeff Kennett, yesterday defended the Supreme Court appeal as a
necessary and normal part of business to provide financial confidentiality to
private investors.

A spokeswoman for the Austin, Ms Fiona Gillies, would not comment on the
hospital's legal advice.

The Government has short-listed two bidders - the Sisters of Charity, which runs
St Vincent's Hospital, and a consortium consisting of Mayne Nickless' Health
Care of Australia, Ramsay Health Care and the Inner and Eastern Health Care
Network to tender to build, own and operate the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

Klang Council lands in court from family of 15-year-old boy who sustained
injuries after falling into a manhole

LENGTH: 274  words


A single mother is initiating legal action against Klang Municipal Council (MPK)
for injuries sustained by her son, who fell into an open manhole last month.

May Tok, 44 said that her 15-year-old son lost a kidney in the fall, which
happened on January 27 next to the Giant hypermarket on Persiaran Batu Nilam.

My son was walking to school with his friend at 6.45am and didnt notice the open
manhole, which was covered with fallen branches and dried leaves.

He fell into the hole and sustained injuries to the right side of his body.
Luckily his friend was there to help him and took him to the nearest clinic, she
said at a press conference this evening in Klang.

May said that when she arrived at the clinic she was advised by the doctor to
take her son to hospital.

I took him to a private hospital, but was advised to go to Tengku Ampuan Rahimah
Hospital because the private hospital lacked the equipment to examine him, she
said.

May added that her son had to have emergency surgery to remove his kidney that
same day.

He is currently on medical leave and cant eat solid food. We want MPK to pay for
his medical bills and any future complications that may arise in the future, she
said.

MCA Klang Division Youth chief Tee Hooi Ling said that the MCAs Legal Bureau
would be initiating legal action against MPK on Mays behalf.

Our lawyer will be issuing a letter of demand to MPK once we have received the
medical report from the hospital next month on the extent of the boys injuries,
she said.

MCA Youth Legal Bureau chief Ng Kian Nam said that they would ask for a
settlement but if MPK refuses, then they will go to court. 2016 Legal Monitor
Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 29, 1995

Hospital has family's support in Scotland's first legal action to allow patient
to die. Court bid for coma woman

BYLINE: Alison Daniels, Alan Macdermid, Medical Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 721 words


A HOSPITAL trust has confirmed it is to take legal action to allow a woman who
has lain in a coma for more than three years to die. It will be Scotland's first
right to die case.

Yesterday, after doctors met relatives of the woman, Mrs Janet Johnston, 50,
from Allanton, near Shotts, Law Hospital in Carluke said it was taking up the
case on humanitarian grounds.

The hospital's medical director, Dr John Browning, said the woman was in a
persistent vegetative state, was being kept alive with a feeding tube, and had
no hope of recovering.

Mrs Johnston, an asthma sufferer, slipped into a coma three and a half years ago
after reportedly taking an overdose. Her husband, retired butcher Peter
Johnston, 53, and his daughter, Ms Linda Bryce, 30, said Mrs Johnston was
effectively dead and should be allowed to die in peace and with dignity.

Speaking at the hospital, the trust's chief executive, Mr Ken Thomson, said the
decision to go to the Court of Session in Edinburgh in October came after months
of discussion with medical staff and the relatives. Independent neurologists had
also been consulted and they shared the view of doctors at Law Hospital.

He said the hospital's legal team, provided by the Central Legal Office, had
followed guidelines from the House of Lords set down after the Tony Bland case
in England.

Mr Bland, who had suffered injuries in the Hillsborough football disaster, had
been in a persistent vegetative state. On appealto the House of Lords, his
parents won permission for his artificial feed to be withdrawn.

At present, there are no specific guidelines in Scotland, although doctors in a
previous case in Glasgow were advised by the Scottish Office that a decision to
terminate feeding would be in their hands if an agreement was reached with
relatives.

However, Mr Thomson said the hospital believed the proper forum to discuss Mrs
Johnston's future was the Court of Session. He said the trust had decided to go
down the legal route in order to protect its medical staff. He said that until
the court advised on publicity the hospital did not want to give any further
details on the case.

Mrs Johnston's family asked the hospital to read out a brief statement on their
behalf. In it, they said the decision to proceed with the court case had been
the most difficult and painful decision they had ever had to make.

"The family has discussed their relative's condition with medical staff and are
all in full agreement that this is the correct way forward."

The legal position for doctors and relatives in Scotland wishing to end the life
of a patient in a persistent vegetative state has remained in limbo since a
statement by the Solicitor-General two years ago, writes ALAN MacDERMID, Medical
Correspondent.

It appeared to repudiate guidance given by the Scottish Home and Health
Department a few years earlier that artificial feeding could be withdrawn
without fear of prosecution provided certain conditions were met -- that two
consultants agreed on the matter, and had consulted relatives.

The guidance -- which was issued to doctors treating a patient in PVS at Glasgow
Royal Infirmary -- was subject to the proviso that the procurator -fiscal would
be obliged to investigate if a complaint were made to him or the police, making
it important to have the agreement of the patient's family.

As a result, the Glasgow patient was allowed to die without any fanfare of
publicity and the case -- and the advice given -- became known at the time of
the Tony Bland case in 1992. The implication was that a court application would
not necessarily be needed each time doctors wanted to disconnect a dependent
patient.

A few months later, however, the Solicitor-General, Mr Thomas Dawson, QC, denied
that any prior assurance could be given about immunity from prosecution and said
he could not speculate on whether a Scottish court would take the same view as
the English court took in the Bland case.

A Crown Office spokesman said yesterday: "There appeared to have been a
misunderstanding about the position."

However, the British Medical Association said: "We believe this should be a
clinical decision, although it should not be taken until the patient has been in
a persistent vegetatuve state for at least a year."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Mr Ken Thomson, Law Hospital's chief executive, and medical director Dr
John Browning said they were taking the action on humanitarian grounds.
Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


                              198 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             August 4, 2008 Monday

U.S. hospitals in business of quiet repatriation;
A question of post-care for immigrants

BYLINE: Deborah Sontag - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1343 words

DATELINE: JOLOMCU, Guatemala


Pilar Conci contributed reporting.

*

High in the hills of Guatemala, shut inside the one-room house where he spends
day and night on a twin bed beneath a seriously outdated calendar, Luis Alberto
Jiménez has no idea of the legal battle that swirls around him in the lowlands
of Florida.

Shooing away flies and beaming at the tiny, toothless elderly mother who is his
sole caregiver, Jiménez remains cheerily oblivious that he has come to represent
the collision of two deeply flawed American systems, immigration and health
care.

Eight years ago, Jiménez, 35, an illegal immigrant working as a gardener in
Stuart, Florida, suffered devastating injuries in a car crash with a drunken
Floridian. A community hospital saved his life, twice, and, after failing to
find a rehabilitation center willing to accept an uninsured patient, kept him as
a ward for years at a cost of $1.5 million.

What happened next set the stage for a continuing legal battle with nationwide
repercussions: Jiménez was deported - not by the U.S. government but by the
hospital, Martin Memorial. After winning a state court order that would later be
declared invalid, Martin Memorial leased an air ambulance for $30,000 and
''forcibly returned him to his home country,'' as one hospital administrator
described it.

Since being hoisted in his wheelchair up a steep slope to his remote home,
Jiménez, who suffered a severe traumatic brain injury, has received no medical
care or prescription medication - just Alka-Seltzer and prayer, his 72-year-old
mother said. Over the last year, his condition has deteriorated with routine
violent seizures, each characterized by a fall, protracted convulsions, a loud
gurgling, the vomiting of blood and, finally, a collapse into unconsciousness.

''Every time, he loses a little more of himself,'' his mother, Petrona Gervacio
Gaspar, said in Kanjobal, the Indian dialect that she speaks with an
otherworldly squeak.

Jiménez's benchmark case exposes a little-known but apparently widespread
practice. Many U.S. hospitals are taking it upon themselves to repatriate
seriously injured or ill immigrants because they cannot find nursing homes
willing to accept them without insurance.

Medicaid does not cover long-term care for illegal immigrants, or for newly
arrived legal immigrants, creating a quandary for hospitals, which are obligated
by U.S. regulation to arrange post-hospital care for patients who need it.

The U.S. immigration authorities play no role in these private repatriations,
carried out by ambulance, air ambulance and commercial plane. Most hospitals say
that they do not conduct cross-border transfers until patients are medically
stable and that they arrange to deliver them into a physician's care in their
homeland. But the hospitals are operating in a void, without governmental
assistance or oversight, leaving ample room for legal and ethical transgressions
on both sides of the border.

Indeed, some advocates for immigrants see these repatriations as a kind of
international patient dumping, with ambulances taking patients in the wrong
direction, away from first-world hospitals to lower-quality care, if any.

Hospital administrators view these cases as costly, burdensome patient transfers
that force them to shoulder responsibility for the dysfunctional immigration and
health care systems. In many cases, they say, the only alternative to
repatriations is keeping patients indefinitely in acute-care hospitals.

''What that does for us, it puts a strain on our system, where we're unable to
provide adequate care for our own citizens,'' said Alan Kelly, vice president of
Scottsdale Healthcare in Arizona. ''A full bed is a full bed.''

Medical repatriations are happening with varying frequency, and varying degrees
of patient consent, from state to state and hospital to hospital. No government
agency or advocacy group keeps track of these cases, and it is difficult to
quantify them.

Many hospitals engage in repatriations of seriously injured and ill immigrants
only as a last resort. ''We've done flights to Lithuania, Poland, Honduras,
Guatemala and Mexico,'' said Cara Pacione, director of social work at Mount
Sinai Hospital in Chicago. ''But out of about a dozen cases a year, we probably
fly only a couple back.''

Other hospitals are more aggressive, routinely sending uninsured immigrants,
both legal and illegal, back to their homelands. One Tucson hospital even tried
to fly a U.S. citizen, a sick baby whose parents were illegal immigrants, to
Mexico last year; the police, summoned by a lawyer to the airport, blocked the
flight.

Sister Margaret McBride, vice president for mission services at St. Joseph's in
Phoenix, which is part of Catholic Healthcare West, said families were rarely
happy about the hospital's decision to repatriate their relatives. But, she
added, ''We don't require consent from the family.''

In a case this spring that outraged Phoenix's Hispanic community, St. Joseph's
planned to send a comatose, uninsured legal immigrant back to Honduras, until
community leaders got lawyers involved. While they were negotiating with the
hospital, the patient, Sonia del Cid Iscoa, 34, who has been in the United
States for half her life and has seven American-born children, came out of her
coma. She is now back in her Phoenix home.

''I can think of three different scenarios that would have led to a fatal
outcome if they had moved her,'' said John Curtin, her lawyer. ''The good
outcome today is due to the treatment that the hospital provided - reluctantly,
and, sadly enough, only in response to legal and public pressure.''

Unlike Iscoa and Jiménez, most uninsured immigrant patients in repatriation
cases do not have advocates fighting for them, and they are quietly returned to
their home countries. Sometimes, their families accept that fate because they
are told they have no options; sometimes they are grateful to the hospital for
paying their fare home, given that other hospitals leave it to relatives or
consulates to assume responsibility for the patients.

Jiménez's case is apparently the first to test the legality of cross-border
patient transfers that are undertaken without the consent of the patients or
their guardians - and the liability of the hospitals who undertake them.

''We're the rhesus monkey on this issue,'' said Scott Samples, a spokesman for
Martin Memorial.

The average stay at Martin Memorial, a relatively tranquil hospital which
features a palm frond design in its gleaming lobby floor and white-coiffed
volunteers in its gift shop, is 4.1 days and costs $8,188. Patients rarely
linger.

In addition to trauma patients, there are uninsured immigrants with serious
health problems. ''In our emergency room, we don't turn anyone away,'' said
Carol Plato Nicosia, the director of corporate business services. ''The real
problem is if we find an underlying problem, and now we have six of them - six
patients who showed up in renal failure and that we are now seeing three times a
week for dialysis.''

''I don't want to sound heartless,'' Plato Nicosia said. ''A community hospital
is going to give care. But is it the right thing? We have a lot of American
citizens who need our help. We only make about 3 percent over our bottom line if
we're lucky. We need to make capital improvements and do things for our
community.''

Tax-exempt hospitals like Martin Memorial are expected to dedicate an
unspecified part of their services to charity cases, and Martin Memorial devoted
$23.9 million in 2006, about 3 percent, which was average for Florida, according
to state data.

Jiménez was a very expensive charity case. In cases like his, where patients
need long-term care, hospitals are not allowed to discharge them to the streets.
U.S. regulations require them - if they receive Medicare payments, and most
hospitals do - to transfer or refer patients to ''appropriate'' post-hospital
care.

But in most states, the government does not finance post-hospital care for
illegal immigrants, for temporary legal immigrants or for legal residents with
less than five years in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 25, 2016 Friday

Status of House Bill No: 1329 Requiring certain hospitals to allow patients an
opportunity

LENGTH: 995  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania House of Representatives has issued the following
Status of House Bill:



  HOUSE BILL



 No.





 1329





 Session of



 2015















 INTRODUCED BY ENGLISH, HENNESSEY, SAMUELSON, PICKETT, FREEMAN, V. BROWN, KOTIK,
KILLION, KINSEY, READSHAW, TOEPEL, DAVIDSON, SAYLOR, SCHLOSSBERG, MILLARD,
RAVENSTAHL, QUIGLEY, COHEN, KORTZ, TALLMAN, MURT, MAHER, MUSTIO, GERGELY, D.
COSTA, M. DALEY, MENTZER, HARHART, SIMS, SCHEMEL, DAVIS, DEAN, A. HARRIS,
SCHREIBER AND BULLOCK, JUNE 12, 2015











 AS AMENDED ON SECOND CONSIDERATION, IN SENATE, MARCH 15, 2016















 AN ACT







 1Requiring certain hospitals to allow patients an opportunity to

 2designate caregivers in patients' medical records and

 3imposing duties on hospitals.





 4The General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

 5hereby enacts as follows:



 6Section 1. Short title.



 7This act shall be known as the Caregiver Advise, Record and

 8Enable Act.



 9Section 2. Definitions.



 10The following words and phrases when used in this act shall

 11have the meanings given to them in this section unless the

 12context clearly indicates otherwise:



 13"After-care assistance." Any assistance provided by a lay

 14caregiver to a patient following the patient's discharge from a

 15hospital and that is related to the patient's condition at the

 20150HB1329PN2973 -1-





 1time of discharge, including, but not limited to, assisting with

 2basic activities of daily living, instrumental activities of

 3daily living and any other tasks as determined to be appropriate

 4by the discharging physician or other health care professional

 5licensed pursuant to 28 Pa. Code Ch. 105 (relating to admission

 6and discharge).



 7"Discharge." A patient's exit or release from a hospital to

 8the patient's residence following medical care or treatment

 9rendered to the patient following an inpatient admission.



 10"Entry." A patient's admission into a hospital for the

 11purposes of receiving inpatient medical care.



 12"Hospital." A general acute care hospital as defined and

 13licensed under Title 28 of the Pennsylvania Code (relating to

 14health and safety).



 15"Lay caregiver." An individual with a significant

 16relationship to a patient and who:



 17(1) is designated and accepts the role as a lay

 18caregiver by the patient pursuant to this act; and



 19(2) provides after-care assistance to the patient living

 20in the patient's residence.



 21"Residence." The dwelling that a patient considers to be the

 22patient's home. The term includes the residence of a patient's

 23designated lay caregiver. The term shall not include a

 24rehabilitation facility, hospital, nursing home, personal care

 25home, assisted living facility or group home licensed by the

 26Department of Health.



 27Section 3. Caregiver designation and consent.



 28(a) General rule.--A hospital shall provide each patient or,

 29if applicable, the patient's legal guardian an opportunity to

 30designate at least one lay caregiver following the patient's

 20150HB1329PN2973 -2-





 1entry into a hospital and, prior to the patient's discharge to&lt;-

 2the residence&lt;-, in a time frame that is consistent with the

 3discharge planning process provided by regulation. The hospital

 4shall promptly document the request in the patient's medical

 5record.



 6(b) Unconscious and incapacitated patients.--In the event

 7that the patient is unconscious or otherwise incapacitated upon

 8entry into a hospital, the hospital shall provide the patient or

 9the patient's legal guardian with an opportunity to designate a

 10lay caregiver as soon as possible following the patient's

 11recovery of consciousness or capacity. The hospital shall

 12promptly document the designation in the patient's medical

 13records.



 14(c) Declining of designation.--&lt;-In the event that If the

 15patient or the patient's legal guardian declines to designate a

 16lay caregiver pursuant to this act, the hospital shall promptly

 17document the decision in the patient's medical record.



 18(d) Designation of lay caregivers.--&lt;-In the event that If the

 19patient or the patient's legal guardian designates an individual

 20as lay caregiver under this act:



 21(1) The hospital shall promptly request the written

 22consent of the patient or the patient's legal guardian to

 23release medical information to the patient's designated lay

 24caregiver following the hospital's established procedures for

 25releasing personal health information and in compliance with

 26all Federal and State laws, including the Health Insurance

 27Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-

 28191, 110 Stat. 1936) &lt;-and related regulations.



 29(2) If the patient or the patient's legal guardian

 30declines to consent to release medical information to the

 20150HB1329PN2973 -3-





 1patient's designated lay caregiver, the hospital is not

 2required to provide notice to the lay caregiver or provide

 &lt;-3medical information contained in the patient's discharge

 4plan.



 5(3) The hospital shall record the patient's designation

 6of &lt;-a lay caregiver, the relationship of the designated lay

 7caregiver to the patient and the name, telephone number and

 8address of the patient's designated lay caregiver in the

 9patient's medical record.



 10(e) Change of lay caregiver.--A patient or the patient's

 11legal guardian may elect to change the patient's lay caregiver

 12at any time, and the hospital shall record the change in the

 13patient's medical record &lt;-before prior to the patient's

 14discharge.



 15(f) Construction.--This section shall not be construed to

 16require a patient or patient's legal guardian to designate &lt;-an

 17individual as a lay caregiver.



 18(g) After-care assistance.--A designation of a lay caregiver

 19by a patient or a patient's legal guardian does not obligate the

 20designated individual to perform any after-care assistance for

 21the patient.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        May 24, 2016 Tuesday 7:59 PM GMT

Four more people hospitalised after taking legal highs;
Police say nine people have suffered the horrific affects of the psychoactive
substances in the town in just four days

BYLINE: By Todd Fitzgerald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words


Another four people have been taken to hospital, including one man who is
fighting for his life, after taking so-called 'legal highs' in Rochdale.

Police say nine people have suffered the horrific affects of the psychoactive
substances in the town in just four days.

All suffered serious reactions after taking 'Annihilation', 'Cherry Bombs',
'Clockwork Orange', 'Pandora's Box', or 'Kronic'.

Officers first put out a warning on Friday after two men collapsed after taking
'Annihilation'.

One was left in an induced coma in hospital. Both men suffered bad reactions
after taking the substance on Drake Street in the town centre.

On Saturday, officers reported that three more people had collapsed after taking
legal highs.

Read: What is the 'Annihilation' legal high?

One, aged 34, is in a serious condition in hospital. Two others received medical
treatment before leaving of their own accord.

Those five are all believed to have taken 'Annihilation', or a similar substance
'Cherry Bombs'.

Despite police warning legal highs can be lethal, another four people were taken
to hospital on Monday after taking various legal highs.

One of them is in a life-threatening condition.

Officers were called to Milnrow Road at around 3.50pm on Monday after a man in
his 30s was found unconscious. It is suspected he took 'Clockwork Orange'.

Read more: Teenage boy fighting for life after taking ecstasy known as
'Rockstar'

He was treated at the scene and taken to hospital where he is in a
life-threatening condition.

At around 4.20pm, police were called to Oldham Road after a man in his 40s had
collapsed. It is thought he took 'Pandora's Box'.

He has since discharged himself from hospital.

Another man, in his 30s, was taken to hospital after he was found collapsed at
an address on The Butts. It is believed he took a substance called 'Kronic'.

The fourth call came in at around 5.50pm. A man his 40s is believed to have
taken legal highs on Drake Street near to the junction with Oldham Road.

He was taken to hospital. It is believed he is conscious.

Read: Three more people taken ill after taking legal highs

Read: Urgent warning over legal high Annihilation as man left in coma

Symptoms of the mind-bending substances include profuse sweating, a racing
heartbeat, extreme muscle tension, delirious ranting, and very high body
temperature.

Detective Insp Lee Hopwood of GMP's Rochdale Borough said: "Despite issuing
warnings about the dangers of these so called 'legal highs', these are now the
latest people to have been taken ill after taking them in the past few days.

"I cannot stress enough how dangerous they are and even though they might not be
illegal, please do not take the risk.

"They can seriously harm you and in the case of these men they are now in
hospital because of it.

"Please think about the effects these substances and do not take them. If you
think someone you know might have taken 'legal highs' then please get medical
attention immediately."

Anyone with information about where the drugs may have come from is asked to
call police on 101 - or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

For help or advice on all drugs - including 'legal highs' - Talk to Frank on
0800 777 6600 or visit talktofrank.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 28, 1981, Monday, Final Edition

Medical Review Unit Wins Reprieve From Cutoff of U.S. Funds

BYLINE: By Howie Kurtz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B1

LENGTH: 1230 words


The District of Columbia's medical review group, faced with a complete cutoff of
federal funding, has won a six-month reprieve to try to prove it is having an
impact on the quality and cost of health care.

The National Capital Medical Foundation received word last week that it had won
its appeal to theU.S. Department of Health and Human Services and can remain
active at least through June 1982.

The foundation is a federally funded group of doctors and nurses that reviews
the way local physicians, hospitals and nursing homes care for patients who are
subsidized by the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The foundation has the power
to deny funds from these programs to the health care providers if it decides a
patient has been given improper treatment or has spent too much time in the
hospital.

But the foundation, in receiving its six-month extension, also was told that it
must resolve a number of problems if it is to survive another evaluation by HHS
next spring.

Medicare is the federal government's health care program for the elderly.
Medicaid is a joint federal-state program that subsidizes health care for the
poor. The foundation receives its funding of approximately $1 million a year
through federal Medicare funds, as well as through District and federal Medicaid
funds.

As an example of the types of problems to which HHS has objected, the foundation
has paid more than $223,000 in Medicare money--or nearly 10 percent of its
budget since 1979--to one D.C. law firm to handle a variety of legal disputes.
It has been paying the same law firm $90 an hour to appeal last month's decision
by HHS to cut off the foundation's funding.

These legal fees have been devoted in part to a long-running battle with several
city hospitals over how much authority they should have to police themselves.

As one of the nation's 187 professional standards review organizations, the
foundation has been looking over the shoulder of local health care providers for
nine years. But the Reagan administration is trying to abolish the entire
program as a needless layer of bureaucracy.

An HHS evaluation earlier this year ranked the National Capital foundation 116th
of the 187 organizations, charging that its reviews cost too much and that it
only rarely denied Medicare or Medicaid payments to providers or even warned
them to eliminate wasteful practices. Members of the foundation disputed the
findings, maintaining that theD.C. foundation was one of the first in the
country, for example, to develop a list of minor surgical procedures for which
the federal health programs will not pay unless the procedures are done on an
outpatient basis.

"We spent so much time and effort defending ourselves that we did not do as well
as we could in having an impact on the medical community," said Dr. Irving
Burka, the foundation's medical director. "The dollars should be directed at the
community, rather than spending it on lawyers and volumes of paper."

But John Lewis Smith III, an attorney with Baker and Hostetler who has handled
the foundation's legal work since its inception, said he charges his private
clients far more than the $90 an hour he charges the foundation.

"I have not the slightest reticence about our fees," he said. "They are modest,
and they were approved by the government in advance."

"There were substantial legal bills, but there were substantial legal issues
involved," added Smith, who also is counsel to the D.C. Medical Society. "People
on both sides were intransigent and relations became totally strained."

The legal problem began in 1979 when eight of the city's 13 hospitals sought
permission to review the care of their own Medicare patients. The foundation can
delegate that authority to the hospitals while still retaining overall
responsibility.

"The real issue is control," said Dr. Robert Hackney, a former foundation
president. "The hospitals don't want someone external to come in and tell them
what to do."

Some critics say that the hospitals are lenient in reviewing their own
performance, since the foundation's power to terminate Medicare and Medicaid
payments puts the hospitals' financial health at stake.

Smith said that the cost of these medical reviews is "massively higher" when
done by the hospitals, which have greater overhead costs and pay their staff
higher salaries. But when HHS refused to pay any more for the reviews, the
hospitals called in their own law firms.

"This is an enormously complicated legal area, and you have to be immersed in .
. . laws and regulations [governing the organizations] to grasp the nuances,"
said Dr. Dennis O'Leary, clinical dean at George Washington University Hospital.

The three university hospitals in the District, along with Greater Southeast
Community Hospital, argued that the government might require them to do even
more work for these medical reviews without paying them more money. They took
their concerns to Smith, who helped write a provision in the foundation's
contract with the hospitals that if HHS tried to impose new requirements on the
hospitals, the foundation would be required to sue the federal government on
their behalf.

Some officials say this demand practically guaranteed that there would be a
continuing legal controversy. But Smith called it "an attempt at compromise.
Many of the hospitals were prepared to take this issue to litigation. They would
not accept the agreement without this clause. The goal was not to generate
litigation, but to avoid it."

O'Leary said that "the language was admittedly contentious language. But it had
to afford mutual protection . . . so a hospital could not be forced to do more
than it could afford."

HHS, however, quickly vetoed the idea.

"Our reaction was, 'No, you're not going to sue us,' " said Dillard Mills, an
HHS official. But Mills allowed the foundation to charge Medicare for hundreds
of hours of legal work by Smith's firm, some of it for a lawsuit by Ralph
Nader's Public Citizen to force the organization to make public its medical
reviews.

The eight hospitals still refused to sign agreements with the foundation.
Matthew F. McNulty, chancellor of Georgetown University Medical Center, insisted
that it is quicker and more effective for Georgetown to review its own patients.

"The program has not come close to funding the actual costs of review," said
O'Leary. "But the real advantage is motivating your medical staff to take an
interest in these problems." Dr. Jim Levy of Greater Southeast Community
Hospital added that the foundation "quickly became almost as bureaucratic as the
federal government" and would not allow his hospital to focus its reviews on the
quality of care.

Last May, HHS said in a warning letter that the foundation no longer was meeting
its goals, and that "unreasonable delays" by the hospitals were "probably an
important factor in the problems you are having. . . . [You] cannot continue in
this impasse."

HHS said that the dispute would have to be resolved in 90 days or the hospitals
no longer would be allowed to do their own reviews.

Each of the hospitals quickly signed a revised agreement, except for Greater
Southeast, which still is litigating the matter. HHS nevertheless recommended
that the foundation be terminated because it had grown too costly and
inefficient, a verdict that the foundation now has six months to reverse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1981 The Washington Post


                              202 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                       August 12, 2016 Friday 6:22 PM GMT

Family of woman who died after miscarriage take legal action against Pennine
Acute hospital trust;
Nanaaishat Momodu's family instruct lawyers and allege clinical negligence over
her treatment at North Manchester General Hospital

BYLINE: By Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 549 words


The family of a mum-of-two who died after miscarrying are taking legal action
against under-fire hospital trust Pennine Acute, alleging clinical negligence.

Nanaaishat Momodu, 32, from Middleton , was 22 weeks pregnant when she lost her
baby at North Manchester General Hospital .

She was admitted with abdominal pain last October but died two days later after
her conditioned worsened.

Nanaaishat miscarried before she got to the hospital, but her family claim she
was told she would have to wait 48 hours to see if she would go into labour
naturally.

They allege that she wasn't given correct treatment quickly enough and also
criticised staffing levels.

Pennine Acute , which runs North Manchester General, the Royal Oldham Hospital ,
Fairfield General and Rochdale Infirmary , has been branded 'inadequate' in a
scathing report by the Care Quality Commission.

Our largest hospital trust is unsafe, appallingly understaffed and badly-led,
say health inspectors

The CQC uncovered severe under-staffing within maternity, neonatal and
paediatrics. In maternity, it found 'a poor culture with deeply entrenched
attitudes where some staff accepted sub-optimal care as the norm'.

At the time of February inspection there were 170 serious maternity and
gynaecology incidents still yet to be dealt with, 13 of which involved severe
harm or death.

News of the legal action was confirmed after an inquest into Nanaaishat's death
was opened and adjourned at Manchester Coroners Court.

Coroner Nigel Meadows said he has received a copy of an internal investigation
report carried out by the hospital.

Independent experts in obstetrics and midwifery could be appointed by the court
to give evidence at the inquest and Mr Meadows said health professionals at the
hospital who were involved in the case could seek to have their own legal
representation at the hearing.

He said: "My initial impression is that this was not a case where there was no
system. There was a system. It comes down to individual clinical judgement."

Nanaaishat's brother, Abeni Momodu, took his sister to the hospital after she
began to feel unwell. Once there, no fetal heartbeat was detected, the hearing
was told.

Scandalous failings: The terrible truth about our biggest hospital trust

Speaking to the M.E.N. after her death, Mr Momodu said his sister was clearly
unwell and was begging medics to remove the baby, but she was given only
paracetamol for pain.

Her condition deteriorated over a weekend and she was taken into surgery on a
Sunday night. She died hours later.

Zak Golombeck, of Manchester law firm Slater and Gordon, said the firm had been
instructed to investigate claims of clinical negligence at Pennine Acute.

He said: "We act for a number of people who have very serious allegations to
make about the care they received at these hospitals.

"Like Nanaaishat's family, they just want answers and to find out if more should
have been done to protect their loved ones.

"The recent findings of the Care Quality Commission will be upsetting and
concerning for them, but will come as no surprise.

"What is clear now is that a wholesale review is needed and must be carried out
urgently to restore public confidence and ensure the highest standards of safety
and care for patients in the future."

The trust has been approached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Marin General Hospital regains financial footing in first half of 2012

BYLINE: By Richard Halstead Marin Independent Journal

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 800 words


While the national economy seems to be weakening, Marin General Hospital gained
financial strength during the first six months of this year, according to the
hospital's CEO Lee Domanico.

Domanico said patient volumes at Marin General dropped to a nadir last year and
the hospital's finances dipped into the red, due in part to expenses associated
with the transition of management back to the Marin Heathcare District and away
from Sutter Health.

"In summary, the transfer was maybe a little more challenging than we thought it
would be," said Domanico, who briefed the Marin Independent Journal editorial
board on Marin General's health this week, two years after the June 2010
management change.

MGH recorded an operating loss of $5.6 million on net revenues of $303.4 million
in 2011, said John Friedenberg, the district's chief fund and business
development officer. Friedenberg said operations were affected by $14.3 million
of transition related expenses, which included legal fees incurred due to legal
action against Sutter Health, a revenue cycle redesign, and write offs of
pre-transfer accounts receivable that were deemed to be uncollectible.

But Domanico said the hospital returned to profitability in January, and patient
volumes are up during the first six months of 2012 compared with the same period
of 2011, the first such year-to-year increase in seven years. Marin General's
daily census rose 5 percent, and its total surgeries jumped 10 percent during
the first half of 2012. The hospital's operating revenue for this period
increased 6.7 percent to $151.8 million.

Domanico said the court-appointed arbitrator who last month ordered Sutter
Health to pay Marin General $21.5 million has not yet ruled on whether Sutter
Health will have to reimburse Marin General for its $3 million to $5 million in
legal expenses. Marin General sued Sutter, accusing it of illegally taking $120
million in profits from Marin General before it relinquished management control.

There is a possibility, however, that Arbitrator Judge Rebecca Westerfeld could
require Marin General to pay Sutter's legal expenses. In her decision,
Westerfield wrote, "An issue remains as to which is the prevailing party in this
arbitration and thus entitled to be reimbursed its reasonable attorneys' fees."

Domanico said, "We have to file a written argument. Then there is a rebuttal
argument, and then she (Westerfield) takes it under consideration."

Despite the cash award to the district, both sides have claimed victory.

"Our understanding is the decision hasn't been made about legal fees," said
Sutter Health spokeswoman Kathie Graham.

Friedenberg, however, said Westerfield's ruling leaves little room for debate.

"If you read her ruling," Friedenberg said, "she found that Sutter willfully and
purposely violated the operating standard, that they breached the contract and
that they violated the covenant of good faith and fair dealing."

Domanico said, "In essence, Sutter acted deliberately to injure Marin General by
not recruiting physicians for Marin General." He said in fact the ruling details
how Sutter recruited some physicians to Marin who did not use the hospital as
part of a strategy to attract patients away from Marin General to other
Sutter-controlled hospitals.

Domanico said over the last seven to eight years, while Sutter Health managed
Marin General, the hospital lost about four percent of its share of the Marin
County health care market to hospitals outside of Marin. He said that since the
Healthcare District took control of the hospital, it has invested millions of
dollars in physician recruitment, and the hospital's market share has
stabilized. In 2010, Marin General joined with the Marin IPA medical group, a
network of local doctors, to form the Prima Medical Foundation, which recruits,
hires and sponsors local doctors.

Domanico said the Healthcare District is proceeding with plans to build a new
Marin General Hospital building. Under state law, the district must make Marin
General earthquake safe no later than 2020 by either building a new hospital or
retrofitting the existing structure. Due to the hospital's age, it is considered
impractical to retrofit it.

Domanico said the county of Marin is currently reviewing the environmental
impact report for the new hospital plan. He said the Healthcare District expects
to put a general obligation bond on the ballot in November 2013 to raise about
$350 million for the project, which has been estimated to cost about $500
million.

And Domanico said Marin General is exploring various options for joining with
doctors to form an "accountable care organization," which will allow it to
benefit from new financial incentives in the Affordable Care Act to promote
preventative care.

Contact Richard Halstead via e-mail atrhalstead@marinij.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marin Healthcare District Executive Director, Lee Domanico. Jean-Paul
Horre
Marin General Hospital, seen on Wednesday, June 22, 2011, in Greenbrae, Calif.,
has been under public management for a year. It was managed by Sutter Health
previously. (IJ photo/Frankie Frost) Frankie Frost
Marin General Hospital, seen on Wednesday, June 22, 2011, in Greenbrae, Calif.,
has been under public management for a year. It was managed by Sutter Health
previously. (IJ photo/Frankie Frost) Frankie Frost

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     October 10, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Hospital Awarded Two Grants Totaling $25,000 Toward Medical-Legal Partnership
Project

LENGTH: 455  words


New Delhi, Oct. 10 -- The Hospital of Central Connecticut (HOCC) has been
awarded two grants totaling $25,000 for its Medical-Legal Partnership Project
(MLPP) with the Center for Children's Advocacy (CCA).



Community Chest of New Britain and Berlin Inc. provided a $20,000 grant toward
program expenses and The Farmington Bank Community Foundation contributed
$5,000.

Both grants are the first awarded to the hospital by the respective
organizations. The hospital's MLPP program, founded in 2008, helps ensure that
low-income children throughout the area receive optimal medical care. To date,
the program has helped hundreds of at-risk children throughout Greater New
Britain, which includes the towns of Bristol, Southington, Plainville and
Berlin.

Through MLPP, the hospital works with the CCA, a Connecticut non-profit agency
that provides legal services for at-risk children. HOCC pediatricians and the
center's MLPP attorneys help low-income children lead healthier lives by
improving access to healthcare and resolving issues such as substandard housing.
Other concerns they address include disability and other basic need benefits,
utility issues, Medicaid and HUSKY concerns, and educational rights.

"The collaborative project between the Pediatrics Department at The Hospital of
Central Connecticut and the CCA is aimed at improving the health outcomes of low
income and other at-risk children within the Greater New Britain area," says
Nagwa Khadr, M.D., chief of Pediatrics. HOCC is grateful to both The Community
Chest of New Britain and Berlin and the Farmington Bank Community Foundation for
these grants, says Khadr, which provide an additional way the hospital, with
CCA, serves the community.

Jay Sicklick, director of the CCA's Medical-Legal Partnership Project, says CCA
is "tremendously grateful" for the two grants that will allow the partnership to
continue to assist some of the most vulnerable children and families in Greater
New Britain.

"There are so many families whose children suffer from medical issues that can
be alleviated with our help," he says. "Poverty should not be a roadblock to the
health and well-being of children and families. Being on site at the hospital,
and working with and training affiliated faculty of HOCC gives patients and
practitioners easy access to legal services that can provide real relief."

"The collaboration of the Medical-Legal Partnership Project and The Hospital of
Central Connecticut is all about medical professionals and lawyers working
together for better health outcomes for families," says Bonnie Roswig, senior
staff attorney of the CCA's Medical-Legal Partnership Project and the on-site
attorney at HOCC. "The grants are really wonderful assists to the community."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             August 4, 2008 Monday

U.S. hospitals repatriate uninsured patients;
Immigrants pose long-term burden

BYLINE: Deborah Sontag - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1685 words

DATELINE: JOLOMCU, Guatemala


Pilar Conci contributed reporting.

*

High in the hills of Guatemala, shut inside the one-room house where he spends
day and night on a twin bed beneath a seriously outdated calendar, Luis Alberto
Jiménez has no idea of the legal battle that swirls around him in the lowlands
of Florida.

Shooing away flies and beaming at the tiny, toothless elderly mother who is his
sole caregiver, Jiménez remains cheerily oblivious that he has come to represent
the collision of two deeply flawed American systems, immigration and health
care.

Eight years ago, Jiménez, 35, an illegal immigrant working as a gardener in
Stuart, Florida, suffered devastating injuries in a car crash with a drunken
Floridian. A community hospital saved his life, twice, and, after failing to
find a rehabilitation center willing to accept an uninsured patient, kept him as
a ward for years at a cost of $1.5 million.

What happened next set the stage for a continuing legal battle with nationwide
repercussions: Jiménez was deported - not by the U.S. government but by the
hospital, Martin Memorial. After winning a state court order that would later be
declared invalid, Martin Memorial leased an air ambulance for $30,000 and
''forcibly returned him to his home country,'' as one hospital administrator
described it.

Since being hoisted in his wheelchair up a steep slope to his remote home,
Jiménez, who suffered a severe traumatic brain injury, has received no medical
care or prescription medication - just Alka-Seltzer and prayer, his 72-year-old
mother said. Over the past year, his condition has deteriorated with routine
violent seizures, each characterized by a fall, protracted convulsions, a loud
gurgling, the vomiting of blood and, finally, a collapse into unconsciousness.

''Every time, he loses a little more of himself,'' his mother, Petrona Gervacio
Gaspar, said in Kanjobal, the Indian language that she speaks.

Jiménez's benchmark case exposes a little-known but apparently widespread
practice. Many U.S. hospitals are taking it upon themselves to repatriate
seriously injured or ill immigrants because they cannot find nursing homes
willing to accept the patients without insurance.

Medicaid does not cover long-term care for illegal immigrants or for newly
arrived legal immigrants. That creates a quandary for hospitals, which are
obligated by U.S. regulation to arrange post-hospital care for patients who need
it.

The U.S. immigration authorities play no role in these private repatriations,
which are carried out by ambulance, air ambulance and commercial plane. Most
hospitals say that they do not conduct cross-border transfers until patients are
medically stable and that they arrange to deliver the patients into the care of
physicians in their homelands. But the hospitals are operating in a void,
without governmental assistance or oversight, leaving ample room for legal and
ethical transgressions on both sides of the border.

Indeed, some advocates for immigrants see these repatriations as a kind of
international dumping of patients, with ambulances taking patients in the wrong
direction, away from first-world hospitals to lower-quality care, if any.

Hospital administrators view these cases as costly, burdensome patient transfers
that force them to shoulder responsibility for the dysfunctional immigration and
health care systems. In many cases, they say, the only alternative to
repatriations is keeping patients indefinitely in acute-care hospitals.

''What that does for us, it puts a strain on our system, where we're unable to
provide adequate care for our own citizens,'' said Alan Kelly, vice president of
Scottsdale Healthcare in Arizona. ''A full bed is a full bed.''

Medical repatriations are happening with a frequency and a degree of patient
consent that vary from state to state and hospital to hospital. No government
agency or advocacy group keeps track of these cases, and it is difficult to
quantify them.

Many hospitals engage in repatriations of seriously injured and ill immigrants
only as a last resort. ''We've done flights to Lithuania, Poland, Honduras,
Guatemala and Mexico,'' said Cara Pacione, director of social work at Mount
Sinai Hospital in Chicago. ''But out of about a dozen cases a year, we probably
fly only a couple back.''

Other hospitals are more aggressive, routinely sending uninsured immigrants,
both legal and illegal, back to their homelands. One Tucson hospital even tried
to fly a U.S. citizen, a sick baby whose parents were illegal immigrants, to
Mexico last year; the police, summoned by a lawyer to the airport, blocked the
flight.

Sister Margaret McBride, vice president for mission services at St. Joseph's in
Phoenix, which is part of Catholic Healthcare West, said families were rarely
happy about the hospital's decision to repatriate their relatives. But, she
added, ''we don't require consent from the family.''

In a case this spring that outraged Phoenix's Hispanic community, St. Joseph's
planned to send a comatose, uninsured legal immigrant back to Honduras, until
community leaders got lawyers involved. While they were negotiating with the
hospital, the patient, Sonia del Cid Iscoa, 34, who has been in the United
States for half her life and has seven American-born children, emerged from her
coma. She is back in her Phoenix home.

''I can think of three different scenarios that would have led to a fatal
outcome if they had moved her,'' said John Curtin, her lawyer. ''The good
outcome today is due to the treatment that the hospital provided - reluctantly,
and, sadly enough, only in response to legal and public pressure.''

Unlike Iscoa and Jiménez, most uninsured immigrant patients in repatriation
cases do not have advocates fighting for them, and they are quietly returned to
their home countries. Sometimes, their families accept that outcome because they
are told they have no options; sometimes they are grateful to the hospital for
paying their fare home, given that other hospitals leave it to relatives or
consulates to assume responsibility for the patients.

Jiménez's case is apparently the first to test the legality of cross-border
patient transfers that are undertaken without the consent of the patients or
their guardians - and the liability of the hospitals who undertake them.

''We're the rhesus monkey on this issue,'' said Scott Samples, a spokesman for
Martin Memorial.

The average stay at Martin Memorial, a relatively tranquil hospital with a
palm-frond design in its gleaming lobby floor and white-coiffed volunteers in
its gift shop, is 4.1 days and costs $8,188. Patients rarely linger.

In addition to trauma patients, there are uninsured immigrants with serious
health problems. ''In our emergency room, we don't turn anyone away,'' said
Carol Plato Nicosia, the director of corporate business services. ''The real
problem is if we find an underlying problem, and now we have six of them - six
patients who showed up in renal failure and that we are now seeing three times a
week for dialysis.''

''I don't want to sound heartless,'' Plato Nicosia said. ''A community hospital
is going to give care. But is it the right thing? We have a lot of American
citizens who need our help. We only make about 3 percent over our bottom line if
we're lucky. We need to make capital improvements and do things for our
community.''

Tax-exempt hospitals like Martin Memorial are expected to dedicate an
unspecified part of their services to charity cases, and Martin Memorial devoted
$23.9 million in 2006, about 3 percent, which was average for Florida, according
to state data.

Jiménez was an expensive charity case. In cases like his, where patients need
long-term care, hospitals are not allowed to discharge them to the streets. U.S.
regulations require them - if they receive Medicare payments, and most hospitals
do - to transfer or refer patients to ''appropriate'' care.

But in most states, the government does not finance post-hospital care for
illegal immigrants, for temporary legal immigrants or for legal residents with
less than five years in the United States.

Martin Memorial's lawyer, Robert Lord Jr., said hospitals should not be forced
to assume financial and legal responsibility for these cases. ''It should be a
governmental burden,'' he said, ''or the government should step in and otherwise
exercise its authority for deportation or whatever it wants to do.''

In Jimenez's case, the hospital's doctors determined that appropriate post-
hospital care meant traumatic brain injury rehabilitation.

Hospital discharge planners searched to no avail for a rehabilitation program or
nursing home.

Representing Jiménez's guardian, Michael Banks, a local lawyer, took the
position that the hospital had a responsibility to provide Jiménez with the
rehabilitation he needed, even if that meant paying a rehabilitation center to
provide it. That, he noted, could have benefited both the hospital and the
patient.

With the guardian and the hospital at an impasse, Martin Memorial took the
matter to court, asking a state judge to compel relatives to cooperate with its
repatriation plan.

In court, Jiménez's doctor, Walter Gil, testified that Jiménez would benefit
from returning to the intimacy of his family.

Dr. Miguel Garces, a prominent Guatemalan physician and public health advocate,
said in a deposition that serious rehabilitation was ''almost nonexistent'' in
Guatemala outside private facilities. He predicted that Jiménez would be taken
in and then released from the country's one public rehabilitation hospital
within a matter of weeks.

The judge granted the hospital's petition. Banks, the guardian, requested a
stay, but the hospital sent Jiménez back to Guatemala just hours before its
response to the stay request was due.

An appeals court later found that the Florida state judge had overstepped his
bounds because deportation is the prerogative of the U.S. government. The court
also declared that no evidence supported the hospital's assertion that Jiménez
would receive appropriate care in Guatemala; the discharge plan, the ruling
said, had not been detailed enough to satisfy federal requirements or the
hospital's own rules.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday

Medico-legal law still killing accident victims

LENGTH: 903  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, April 3 -- Last month, six teenagers left their school in a jeep for a
coffee shop in Gulberg. Looking for a thrill, the young-bloods stepped on the
gas as soon as they got onto The Mall. Drunk with excitement, listening to loud
music and with no worries at all, the teenage driver aimed for a sharp turn to
get on Zafar Ali Road, but lost control of the jeep, crashing right into the
wall of the bridge.

The injured boys were rushed to a private hospital, but the administration
refused to take the case, saying, "only government hospitals are authorised to
admit accident victims". While the rescuers tried to convince the doctors,
saying that the youngsters were in critical condition, one of the boys, Razi
Talib, breathed his last. Still, the doctors advised paramedics to take the boys
to a government hospital. Annoyed by the doctors' refusal, the rescuers took the
injured to two other nearby private hospitals, but doctors there also refused,
saying that the law doesn't allow them to admit accident patients. Eventually,
the five injured boys were taken to a government hospital, where another boy,
Muhammad Hussain, fought for his life for a week before succumbing to his
injuries.

The other four boys, Raza Khar, Taimur Elahi, Ahmad Nadeem and Waleed Butt,
however, were fortunate enough to survive the incident. The two boys' lives
could have been saved if they received proper medical attention in time, but the
archaic medico-legal law - in force since the days of the British Raj - defeated
the boys' in their struggle to survive. This was not the first time precious
human lives were lost for no good reason, and it probably will not be the last.
Despite the deaths of hundreds every year, simply because of medico-legal red
tape, the government shows no interest in amending the 'complicated' procedure,
Daily Times has learnt. Under the law, if someone is injured in a car accident
or receives a bullet wound, the patient will have to go to a government hospital
to obtain a medico-legal certificate (MLC) - a prerequisite for getting an FIR
registered. Treatment at private health establishments have no legal standing,
and police will not include the relevant sections in the first information
report (FIR), even if a case is registered after verification of the incident
from the crime scene. Owing to the complications involved in the whole process,
private hospitals refuse to treat accident patients, even if they are in
critical condition. This causes a lot of trouble to already-panicked patients,
often resulting in the deaths of the aggrieved. Mayo Hospital Casualty Medical
Officer (CMO) Dr Shahbaz said his unit receives 15 to 18 medico-legal cases
every day, with the number increasing three times during the summers. He said
patients come with a number of problems, including poisoning, firearm injury,
traffic accident, electric shocks, burns and calamity (in case of bomb blasts).
"Many such patients are refused treatment by private hospital doctors before
coming to Mayo," he said.

Shadman Station House Officer (SHO) Waseem said the law does not bar private
health establishments from giving treatment to accident patients. "It's just
that police will not include the relevant section in the FIR unless an MLC is
issued by a doctor working in a government hospital...but no one stops doctors
from treating accident patients," he added.Private Hospitals Association
Treasurer Dr Mazhar Iqbal Chaudhry said, "Doctors practicing in private
hospitals usually avoid treating such patients because they do not want to get
involved in thana, kutchehry (police station and court) affairs." However, he
said that treatment should be given to patients in a critical condition, but the
problem is that "since private hospitals are not authorised to issue medico-
legal certificates, a police case cannot be registered even if a patient is
treated at a private hospital," he said.

No plan: Law Secretary Dr Syed Abdul Hassan Najmi told Daily Times that the
government did not have a plan in the pipeline to amend the said law. "Since the
law comes under the Criminal Procedural Code (CrPC), only the federal government
can make amendments in it...the Health Department and the provincial cabinet can
only send recommendations to the Centre," he said. However, he suggested
increasing the number of medico-legal centres to address the problem instead of
amending the CrPC.Criminal law practitioner Advocate Muhammad Rizwan Gondal said
that patients had been refused treatment even at government hospitals in the
past for not getting a docket from the police station concerned.However, former
prime minister Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain changed the procedure after assuming
office, and now patients are initially treated without any question, but an MLC
is still issued after getting the docket, he said. He was of the view that since
there is a provincial health department as well, the Punjab government could
make amendments in its area of jurisdiction.

Bill: MPA Sheikh Allauddin said he had repeatedly voiced the issue in different
sessions of the Punjab Assembly, adding that he would also move a private bill,
which would incorporate stern action against private hospitals' doctors if they
refuse to admit accident patients. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Daily Times. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit
Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                Roscommon Herald

                                  July 5, 2011

Council should take control of hospital

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 382 words


In light of very poor political leadership in Europe the people of Roscommon
must now look beyond the short-term political scars at local and national level
of the removal of major acute services from Roscommon Hospital. As a united
Roscommon people we must, with open arms, embrace a paradigm shift with
Roscommon County Council taking over control of Roscommon Hospital in the legal
format of a not for profit arms length company.

Clearly this would be the best chance in a generation to meaningfully alter the
way acute hospital services are run in Roscommon. Such an arm length not for
profit company would allow for Ireland's first nurse led hospital to be a
training hospital and create a whole new landscape in hospital care throughout
Ireland, being financially controlled by our elected Roscommon county
councillors at monthly meetings.

The scale of the challenge is immense, but the immediate rewards are security of
retention of all hospital services into the future. The bedrock of such a
proposal would be all our elected political representatives in united fashion
gathering support at Dail level, for a legal instrument to be passed by
Oireachtas that would allow medical doctor recruitment from India or Pakistan,
five year legal immunity for the arms length company from any court action,
joining together of A+E and intensive care services, setting of remuneration
rates and working practices for medical consultants.

It may be a marathon or a sprint for Roscommon Council to take over the running
of Roscommon County Hospital, but it needs to be done so as to secure the
continued provision of full hospital services and the meaningful powers and
immunity by legal statue instrument of Oireachtas, to run our own local hospital
in a democratic and equitable nurse led model way for the population of
Roscommon.

The local medical, nursing, legal and administrative skills mix, is abundant in
Roscommon hand in hand with the political firepower to take this opportunity,
presented to us by our Taoiseach Enda Kenny TD in his decision, delivered
personally in Roscommon, to remove our major acute services from Roscommon
Hospital mortally wounding our very way of Life in north and south Roscommon.

is mise le meas

Ger o Brien BA (Hons ) LLB (Hons) BA RGN RMN.

3 The Plains

Ballinagare

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Top doctors in legal fight against Healthier Together shake-up

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 478 words


A GROUP of senior Wythenshawe Hospital doctors have officially launched legal
action against the NHS over 'catastrophic' plans to move surgery away from the
site.

'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a company set up for the purpose - has lodged court
papers aimed at triggering a judicial review of the decision, taken by clinical
commissioners over the summer. NHS bosses say it could cost the system £500,000
in legal costs.

The doctors have launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together
hospital shakeup, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the
region. They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal
surgery - but Wythenshawe, to the fury of doctors, MPs and some local
councillors, was not one of those chosen.

As a result a small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's
much larger medical staff-ing committee, has now launched legal action against
Greater Manchester's 12 clinical commissioning groups.

In a statement, the doctors - who are represented by lawyers Irwin Mitchell -
said the move would 'downgrade' the hospital.

Lawyer Mathieu Culverhouse said they believed the decision was 'unlawful' and
had not taken clinical outcomes into account, adding that the impact could be
'catastrophic'.

Speaking on behalf of Keep Wythenshawe Special, consultant surgeon Andrew
Macdonald added: "We have not been given the assurances we sought from the
commissioning groups and have real concerns about how the plans will affect
patient safety in the Greater Manchester region."

But Healthier Together and the council leader in charge of health for the region
have both hit back.

Dr Nigel Guest, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and one of those who gave
Stepping Hill specialist status over Wythenshawe, said commissioners were
'extremely disappointed' with the move, which he claimed was not backed by the
hospital's board.

An initial £500,000 has been put on one side to defend the challenge, he said,
adding: "We have met with these individuals a number of times to understand
their concerns and tried to resolve the issue collaboratively, rather than going
through a legal process. However, the group has refused further meetings and has
formed a private company, Keep Wythenshawe Special, in order to sue the NHS."
Lord Peter Smith, who leads on health devolution for the combined authority,
said the move could 'halt' the recruitment of 13 new A&E doctors and 22
surgeons, adding that the entire shake-up had been about improving all
hospitals.

A judge is expected to look at the bid in the next couple of months before
ruling whether or not the review can go ahead.

But it's understood the Healthier Together shakeup will largely continue as
planned while the legal process rumbles on.

Sources said the University Hospitals South Manchester board wished to see the
issues resolved outside the legal process.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wythenshawe Hospital faces a downgrade.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2015 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday

PPCB to initiate legal proceedings against CMCH

BYLINE: Sanjeev Chopra

LENGTH: 288  words

DATELINE: Patiala


Hospital running without authorisation for disposal of biomedical waste: Board

The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has decided to initiate legal
proceedings against the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) in
Ludhiana for running the hospital and disposing its biomedical waste without
proper authorisation. The decision was taken on Wednesday during a personal
hearing granted to the hospital in this connection.

PPCB Member Secretary Babu Ram said the 577-bed hospital had been running
without the mandatory authorisation under the Bio-Medical Waste (Management and
Handling) Rules 1998 for the last over five years, ever since its permit expired
on April 8, 2005. PPCB chairman Rajat Aggarwal said their legal team was
preparing a case to be registered against the CMCH authorities because of the
"repeated negligence" on its part in complying with the norms. PPCB authorities
said the CMCH failed to apply for the authorisation even though the board
officials visited the hospital in August and issued a show-cause notice for
several violations. The officials paid another visit after that and found the
hospital to be still violating the norms prescribed under the biomedical waste
rules.

In the view of the "intentional non-compliances" by such a reputed hospital, the
board has now taken a serious view and approved initiation of legal proceedings
against it. Babu Ram said any hospital, dispensary or healthcare facility found
to be operating without valid authorisation would be proceeded against, as the
PPCB was adopting a "zero-tolerance" policy. He appealed to the medical
fraternity to be socially and morally responsible to build a healthy and greener
Punjab by complying with the biomedical waste rules.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                      June 14, 1992, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital target of suit

BYLINE: ALLYSON JEFFS

SECTION: CITY; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 364 words


The mother of a schizophrenic man who died of pneumonia after being diagnosed
with arthritis has filed a suit against Holy Cross Hospital, two local doctors
and the City of Calgary.

However, whether the suit proceeds to court depends largely upon a decision by
the Legal Aid Society of Alberta.

Documents filed at Court of Queen's Bench allege 27-year-old James Michael Simon
of Calgary was improperly diagnosed and treated by two doctors at Holy Cross
Hospital between May 14 and June 15 of last year.

Simon was found dead in his apartment June 17. His mother, Norma Simon, found
him lying naked on a couch with blood and foam running from his mouth.

An autopsy revealed he died of bilateral pneumonia, which is pneumonia affecting
both lungs.

Sandy De Piero, spokeswoman for Holy Cross Hospital, said the hospital has not
yet been served with the documents and could not comment on them.

Because Simon's mother cannot afford the cost of a lawsuit, and because the
provincial Fatal Accidents Act sets a limit of $ 3,000 on the amount of money
which may be recovered, the suit may not proceed.

Lawyer Mitchell Ford, who acts for Simon, said Legal Aid has agreed to cover
costs for filing initial documents and preparing an opinion on the merits of
proceeding with the case.

After that, he said, Legal Aid will review the file and decide whether or not to
finance the case.

Ford said he doesn't know if Legal Aid will fund a case where the amount of
money that can be recovered will not even begin to pay for legal costs.

"Medical malpractice can be a very expensive lawsuit, very difficult and very
expensive," Ford said.

He added the costs of obtaining hospital records and of obtaining expert medical
opinion alone can run into tens of thousands of dollars.

A spokesman for Legal Aid could not be reached for comment.

Simon is seeking $ 3,000 in damages, funeral costs and unspecified special
damages.

The City of Calgary is named because of Simon's complaints about how Emergency
Medical Services personnel responded to her son's call for an ambulance last
June 15.

A spokesman for the City of Calgary could not be reached for comment.



LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday

Editorial: Halifax Health moves forward from lawsuit

BYLINE: OUR VIEW

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 707  words


Having finally settled a five-year-long whistleblower lawsuit that cost it $120
million in fines and legal fees, it's understandable that Halifax Health would
want to put the episode in its rear-view mirror and focus on what lies ahead.

Successfully navigating the future, though, requires learning from the
experience of the past and avoiding decisions that led to the huge settlement.
The hospital cannot afford any more costly detours.

Nor can it have the government giving it confusing directions.

Hospitals swim in a vast sea of regulations. They have a difficult but mandatory
responsibility to comply with those rules. That includes separating the common
fish from the barracudas that can take a chunk out of the hospital's hide.

Halifax Health failed in that regard when, in 2008, Elin Baklid- Kunz, an
employee in the hospital's compliance office, notified management that
employment contracts violated the federal Stark Law, which regulates physician
services for Medicare and Medicaid patients. Her concerns were justified
according to a legal analysis done by Halifax Health's associate general
counsel.

Despite its own employees warning of the problem, Halifax Health's legal counsel
sought the opinion of an outside counsel, who concluded that the arrangements
could be defended in court but gave no assurances that a judge or jury would
agree that the agreements were legal. The hospital chose to go with the outside
opinion.

Halifax Health's associate general counsel recommended self- reporting the
matter to the government, which she believed would have resulted in a much less
severe penalty for the hospital. An assistant U.S. attorney later told The
News-Journal that would have been the wise course of action. Hospital officials,
though, contend that federal protocols for such settlements didn't exist until
2010.

In June 2009, Baklid-Kunz filed the whistleblower lawsuit against her employer
alleging it was ignoring illegal contracts with nine physicians and overcharging
Medicare for short hospital stays.

In a meeting with The News-Journal editorial board last week, Halifax Health CEO
Jeff Feasel said he wasn't aware of the decisions his legal counsel made that
were at the center of the lawsuit until December 2009. The hospital's board of
directors was notified of the suit a month later. He added that he wished the
Stark Law issues had been brought to his attention when concerns were initially
raised.

Going forward, Halifax Health needs the foresight to address these problems
before they metastasize. Not only is it responsible to the taxpayers who
partially fund it, but the health care it provides makes it an invaluable asset
to the community that must not be weakened.

Halifax Health has taken welcome steps to avoid a repeat, some of them
voluntary, others mandated by the federal government.

Earlier this month David Davidson, the hospital's chief general counsel since
1991, resigned effective Oct. 1. He told hospital commissioners in a meeting he
took "full ownership" of the contracts at the center of the lawsuit.

In the meeting with The News-Journal editorial board, Feasel said hospital
management "thinks differently" today. It now asks how people outside the
organization, including in government, would view its policies.

As part of the first settlement agreement, the hospital has hired a compliance
expert to advise its board. He has a five-year mandate, but management has
indicated it may voluntarily extend that period to provide greater protection.
Board members and hospital staff also have had to complete training sessions on
compliance. The hospital's compliance officer now reports directly to Feasel.

In January, a legal review team will begin examining contracts and policies to
provide an extra layer of compliance.

Will that be enough?

It would help if hospitals didn't have to grow wings to stay above all the
government regulations that continuously pile up, or employ psychic powers to
interpret them.

The Stark Law is confounding; Halifax Health officials say it is 10 pages long
but open to "900 interpretations." Public funds must be protected from waste and
fraud, but those controls should be clearly defined and understood, and the
penalties should be commensurate with the violations.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              212 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 13, 2014 Tuesday

Palm Drive non-profit requesting mediation

BYLINE: Martin Espinoza, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 489 words


May 13--The nonprofit foundation that wants to reopen Palm Drive Hospital and
take over its management has asked a federal bankruptcy judge to intervene in
its stalled talks with the hospital board.

The Palm Drive Health Care Foundation, which has been negotiating for weeks with
the hospital district board, filed a legal motion on Friday requesting a court
appointed mediator "to resolve an impasse" that is preventing the hospital from
reopening.

For its part, the hospital board, filed legal papers opposing Monday opposing
the foundation's request for a court appointed mediator.

In early April, the hospital board both filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy and
approved the closure of the cash-strapped facility, citing crippling competition
from Santa Rosa hospitals, especially Kaiser Permanente, declining overnight
patient stays and reduced health plan payments.

The legal filings are further signs of the acrimony that has developed between
the hospital board and the foundation that for years supported the hospital with
millions of dollars in private donations.

"The bankruptcy court may not agree with us, but we are looking for a means to
find a good solution to work for all of us," said Gail Thomas, a key negotiator
for the foundation.

Thomas said one of the goals of the Chapter 9 bankruptcy process is to keep
public entities -- in this case the hospital -- functioning while their
financial issues are resolved.

The foundation's legal motion states that "the foundation's essential and
achievable plans to re-open the hospital should not be allowed to languish
another day as a result of the board's failure to openly engage the foundation."

Chris Dawson, president of the hospital board, said he was surprised by the
foundation's legal maneuver. He said the last meeting between the hospital board
and foundation was last Wednesday, and that both sides had agreed to put out a
press release stating that talks were ongoing and that progress was being made.

"Having a mediator involved just doesn't make sense," Dawson said.

Dawson said there continue to be a number problems with the foundation's
proposal, including its plan for governance, its financial projections, proposed
clinical services and lack of a qualified executive management team.

Dawson also said a court-appointed mediator is not needed since the hospital
board is also in talks with other interested parties, including St. Joseph
Health in Sonoma County, which has expressed interest in possibly providing
physical therapy and urgent care services.

"I don't think its necessary," he said. "We're talking to other people."

When asked how long the hospital would remain closed, Dawson said, "I can't
answer that."

You can reach Staff Writer Martin Espinoza at 521-5213 or
martin.espinoza@pressdemocrat.com

___ (c)2014 The Press Democrat (Santa Rosa, Calif.) Visit The Press Democrat
(Santa Rosa, Calif.) at www.pressdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140513-UR-Palm-Drive-non-profit-requesting-mediation-0513-20140513

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2014


                              213 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                October 28, 2005

Hospitals refuse to donate equipment for quake zone

BYLINE: Hannah Davies

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 507 words


Hospital bosses have refused to donate medical equipment to help victims of the
South Asia earthquake - because it could leave them open to legal action.
Hospitals in Pakistan and India are buckling under the strain as they struggle
to treat thousands of people injured in the quake or ill in its aftermath.

Charity workers from the International Hospital Relief Trust recently
transported two tonnes of medical aid from hospital trusts across the country.

However, the organisation today revealed that managers at Leicester's hospitals
would not contribute to the shipment of incubators, wheelchairs, beds, trollies,
blankets and bandages.

The University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust has never donated medical
equipment to the charity. It said it could face legal action if the equipment
failed or went wrong.

As a result, bosses scrap 75 per cent of unwanted machinery, while the rest is
returned to the manufacturer as a trade-in, or auctioned.

Other hospital trusts have found a way round the legal problem.

Today, Leicester hospital managers pledged to review their policy.

Zuffar Haq, chairman of the relief charity, said: "There is a desperate
situation in Pakistan. We can help by salvaging equipment hospitals here
considered to be unsafe or beyond repair.

"I have been asking the trust to donate medical equipment to the charity for
three years and have always been disappointed.

"I had hoped they would change their minds after the earthquake, but they
didn't.

"I don't understand why they will not help out, when other hospitals do. They
wouldn't even give us a blanket." Walsall Hospitals NHS Trust and Liverpool
Women's Hospital NHS Trust were among those to donate equipment for earthquake
victims.

A Leicester trust spokesman said it had refused requests for donations because
it had to be sure it was "indemnified against all possible legal ramifications
in the event of the equipment failing or being used inappropriately".

However, Mike Cooke, chief executive of South Staffordshire Healthcare NHS
Trust, donated equipment three years ago.

In a letter to Mr Haq, he covered liability issues.

He said: "Obviously, this equipment has no warranty and my organisation can
accept no responsibility for its subsequent performance.

"I am delighted that the organisation I represent is able to donate equipment
which has reached the end of its service life and is therefore of no further
value to the NHS.'' Mr Haq, who is also chairman of Leicester Patients' Group,
has offered to draw up a document which would transfer liability to his charity,
but this proposal was refused by the trust.

He said: "This equipment might not be suitable for use in Leicester, but people
in Pakistan are using machines that are 30 years old." A trust spokeswoman said:
"The trust has great sympathy for those affected by any disaster.

"Our policy on the donation of equipment will be reviewed and, in the meantime,
any request for equipment will be sympathetically considered."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                       © Copyright 2005 Leicester Mercury


                              214 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                           October 10, 2013 Thursday
                                 METRO EDITION

State reviewing payments to U hospital

BYLINE: JEREMY OLSON; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 534 words



HIGHLIGHT: Question is whether Amplatz facility is really a stand-alone
hospital.


State officials have commissioned a legal review to determine whether a
Department of Human Services executive gave a Twin Cities pediatric hospital an
unfair exemption from a cut in public payments.

An internal department audit recommended the review last week after finding that
the exemption granted to the University of Minnesota Amplatz Children's Hospital
appeared inconsistent with state law and unfair to competitors in Duluth and
Rochester. If agency attorneys agree the exemption was improper, the state might
"take back" $3 million in excess payments to Amplatz, which is part of the
Fairview Health Services hospital and clinic group.

The controversy dates to 2011, when the Legislature and Gov. Mark Dayton
balanced the state budget with a temporary, 10 percent cut in rates paid to
hospitals for care of Minnesotans covered by Medical Assistance and other
publicly subsidized health plans.

They included an exemption for children's hospitals, which clearly applied to
Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota, and Gillette Children's Specialty
Healthcare because both operate licensed, free-standing hospitals in the metro
area.

But while Amplatz has its own shiny new building on the West Bank campus of the
university, it technically is licensed as part of the larger university Medical
Center.

"There is no definition in state law of a children's hospital, so there's some
degree of interpretation here," said Chuck Johnson, deputy human services
commissioner for policy and operations. "Is [Amplatz] a hospital? Or is it just
a children's unit or a subhospital within a hospital?"

The same question applies to pediatric hospitals within the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester and in Duluth. But leaders of those hospitals never requested the
exemption, as Fairview executives did in a November 2011 meeting with DHS
Assistant Commissioner Scott Leitz.

According to an Oct. 1 summary of an internal audit, Leitz made his own judgment
that Amplatz should qualify for an exemption because it treats only children and
is a stand-alone hospital with its own emergency department.

"We should have sought a legal opinion at the time," Johnson said. "It doesn't
mean the decision was necessarily wrong. We're still examining that."

Johnson said the department will recommend changes in state law to clarify the
definition of pediatric hospitals. It will also pursue a clear process for
deciding whether hospitals qualify for exemptions to the rate cut, which is
scheduled to expire in 2015.

Since September 2011, Amplatz has received $29 million from the state for
hospital services. Had it not been exempt from the rate cut, Amplatz would have
received only $26 million, according to state estimates.

The end result of the legal review could be that Amplatz pay the $3 million
difference to the state or that the pediatric hospitals in Duluth and Rochester
receive payments equaling what they should have received if they had also been
exempt to the rate cut over the past two years.

Fairview officials believe Amplatz meets the definition of a children's hospital
, according to a statement, but declined to speculate on how they will respond
to the legal opinion until it is issued.

Jeremy Olson · 612-673-7744

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 11, 2003

Right-To-Live Row Pensioner Dies

SECTION: News; Health; Others; Pg. 4 1110WESTDP240right

LENGTH: 94 words


A Former hospital matron at the centre of a legal battle about the treatment of
the elderly died in hospital yesterday. On Monday, a High Court judge ordered
doctors at the Norfolk University Hospital, Norwich, to feed and treat
91-year-old Olive Nockels.

Members of her family had launched a legal action claiming that the hospital was
leaving the pensioner to die.

Mrs Nockels' grandson, Chris West, 32, of Norwich, said he would continue with
the legal action in the High Court.

"We have got legal aid and we won't let this drop," he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press


                              216 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                              June 3, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'Patients with grievances should get free legal aid'

BYLINE: Dan Danaher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 238 words


HOSPITAL patients or relatives of patients who have a serious grievance over the
standard of care at a public hospital should be given free legal aid, a Fine
Gael politician has claimed.

Councillor Padraig Conneely made the claim as he criticised the standard of care
provided by University College Hospital Galway in the lead-up to the death of
Savita Halappanavar.

As chairman of the HSE West Forum, Mr Conneely told a meeting of the forum that
free legal aid should be provided to people who have a serious grievance or who
have lost a lovedone in a public hospital such as UCHG. The ex-Galway City Mayor
criticised the provision of legal aid for people with '30 or 40 convictions'
while patients have no such entitlement.

He cited a case involving one woman who approached him concerning care but was
told by a barrister she would have to produce '(EURO)10,000 up front before he
could even look at the file'.

It has also emerged the final report of the HSE inquiry into the death of Ms
Halappanavar is expected to be complete in the coming weeks.

Chief Operating Officer of the Galway Roscommon Hospital Group Tony Canavan says
while a date is not yet confirmed, the independent chairman, Professor Sir
Sabaratnam Alrulkumaran, is working on the final stages. Ms Halappanavar, 31,
died in hospital last October, four days after suffering a miscarriage. A jury
in the inquest into her death returned a verdict of medical misadventure.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2013 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           August 20, 2014 Wednesday

Halifax CEO: Time to move on after lawsuit

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 589  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- Halifax Health leaders say it's time to move forward now that
they have concluded three town hall meetings explaining a whistleblower lawsuit
that cost the hospital about $120 million in settlement and legal fees.

"We want to put it behind us," Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel said. "We want to
move on. This will not define Halifax Health."

The third and final public session was Wednesday at the Mary McLeod Bethune
Performing Arts Center.

Next month, the Halifax Health Board of Commissioners, a seven- member board
appointed by the governor, will begin evaluating the performance of Feasel, who
was named CEO in January 2005.

Despite the hefty cost of the suit, hospital officials say they settled the
matter at a sum that won't dramatically affect the 678- bed public hospital
system's viability in the future. Rating agencies downgraded the hospital's bond
rating -- from A- to BBB+ in one instance. But hospital officials say $420
million stockpiled in reserves helped them to absorb the blow.

The third meeting, held at 4 p.m., was sparsely attended with about 20 people in
the audience. Only about half a dozen weren't affiliated with the hospital.

Elin Baklid-Kunz, a former compliance officer, filed the lawsuit in 2009, and it
was later broken into two cases.

The first alleged Halifax Health violated the Stark Law when paying three
neurosurgeons and six cancer doctors. The Stark Law bars hospitals from
compensating doctors based on volume and referrals. The hospital settled that
part of the suit in March for $85 million and agreed to abide by the terms of a
five-year corporate integrity agreement that will give the federal government
greater oversight into its operations.

It will cost about $350,000 a year to adhere to the terms of the corporate
integrity agreement, which requires the hospital to hire a compliance expert and
independent law firm to review a sample of physician contracts.

The U.S. Department of Justice joined the first part of the case, arguing such
contracts as the ones between the hospital and its cancer doctors can induce
physicians to perform unnecessary tests and procedures. The hospital maintains
it structured the agreements in a way to keep qualified doctors in the community
and did nothing wrong.

The second phase involved allegations the hospital overcharged Medicare by
admitting patients to the hospital for short stays of two days or less, instead
of keeping them in observation status and billing at a lower rate. That was
settled for $1 million.

Faced with a potential judgment of more than $1 billion, mounting legal fees and
the prospect of numerous appeals, hospital officials say they settled the matter
even though they don't think they did anything wrong.

"It was taking great wear and tear on our community and the hospital," said Ann
Martorano, chief operating officer for Halifax Health.

In the town hall meetings, hospital officials took aim at what they consider to
be unclear health care regulations with draconian penalties. They say no
inappropriate care was ever provided, and no bills were ever submitted for
medical services not rendered. In addition to the $86 million settlement amount,
the hospital also paid $24 million for its own legal fees and $10 million in the
whistleblower's attorney fees during the five-year legal battle.

Despite the suit, patient care has never suffered at the hospital, Feasel said.

"We want to get back to focusing 100 percent of our time on doing what we do
best and that's providing health care for our community," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              218 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             August 29, 2016 Monday

Amrita hospital gets state-of-the-art autopsy block

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, Aug. 29 -- Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS), here, opened the
state's most advanced Autopsy Block with world-class facilities, including
state-of-the-art autopsy theatre with a viewing gallery and cold storage as well
as separate rooms for police inquest, relatives of the deceased, and visitors.
Plus, it is equipped with 24-hour CCTV surveillance and recording facility. Dr
Arul R B Krishna, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order and Traffic),
inaugurated the new setup.

"The over-burdened government medical colleges in the state cannot fulfil our
requirement for medico-legal autopsies. On the other hand, the same facility in
private medical colleges is lying unutilised. A well-equipped Autopsy Block like
the one at Amrita Hospital gives police the critical support it needs in medico-
legal cases. It is a welcome addition to the autopsy capability of the state,
and the City Police will try to fully utilise the facility to reduce the burden
on government hospitals," the DCP said. Dr. V V Pillay, Head, Department of
Forensic Medicine & Toxicology, AIMS, who also spoke on the occasion, said, "Not
many people know about it, but we are the only private medical college hospital
in Kerala, which is authorised to perform medico-legal autopsies (post-mortem).
In fact, we have several police stations attached to the hospital for the
purpose. All autopsies are done at our hospital free of cost as a public
service. The addition of state-of-the-art facilities, which hardly exist
elsewhere in the state, has made our Autopsy Block among the best in India. I
appeal to the police and relatives of the deceased to put it to full use to
reduce the heavy autopsy burden on government hospitals and avoid needless
travel and wait." According to RTI data, about 12,680 medico-legal autopsies
were conducted in government hospitals in the state in 2014. Of these, only
4,850-- about one-third-- were performed by Forensic experts, who have an MD in
Forensic Medicine.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 10, 1998 Thursday

Report criticizes Sick Kids, doctor  Some key questions raised by drug-research
controversy remain unanswered

BYLINE: KRISTA FOSS and PAUL TAYLOR The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: Toronto


A long-awaited review of a drug controversy at the Hospital for Sick Children
has criticized the actions of the hospital administration and the researcher at
the centre of the affair.

In a 153-page report released yesterday, Dr. Arnold Naimark says the hospital's
weak policy infrastructure and failure to give clear moral support to Dr. Nancy
Olivieri exacerbated the blood researcher's dispute with Apotex Inc., a drug
firm that sponsored her research.

At the same time, Dr. Naimark says Dr. Olivieri did not report "serious adverse
reactions" involving the drug to the hospital's research-ethics board.

The hospital's board of trustees was quick to issue a statement asserting the
institution's blamelessness in the affair.

But Dr. Naimark, speaking later at a news conference, insisted: "I am not
exonerating the hospital of anything."

The report leaves unanswered some key questions raised by the controversy, in
which Dr. Olivieri says the hospital did not support her legally and morally in
the dispute with Apotex.

The company had threatened her with legal action when she questioned the
effectiveness of a drug she was testing for the firm.

"The question of whether she asked for and was refused legal assistance [from
the hospital] is still open," Dr. Naimark said at the news conference, where the
report was made public.

That contradicted the hospital's statement, which said: "The claim that no legal
support was forthcoming from the hospital is false."

The issue has been a public-relations nightmare for the hospital and a subject
of hot debate in scientific circles.

At the crux of the controversy is how the hospital dealt with Dr. Olivieri in
her dispute with Apotex, and whether or not patient safety was shortchanged in
the process.

Still, a clearly relieved James Pitblado, chairman of the board of trustees,
said at the news conference, "The review clearly shows that the hospital
energetically and consistently put child health and safety first."

In 1993, Dr. Olivieri and another hospital researcher, Dr. Gideon Koren, agreed
with Apotex to research a drug called deferiprone as a potential new treatment
for children with thalassemia -- a condition in which patients don't produce
their own hemoglobin and must be regularly transfused with red blood cells.

Those regular transfusions can lead to a fatal buildup of iron in the organs --
so "iron-chelating" drugs are needed to offset the effect.

Dr. Olivieri hoped deferiprone would be such a drug. But when early results
showed the drug was not as effective in ridding her patients of iron, she
reported the results to the research-ethics board. It advised her to revise
patient-consent forms, so patients would be aware of the effects.

The contract Dr. Olivieri and Dr. Koren signed with Apotex included a
confidentiality clause that prohibited the researchers from publishing their
results without the company's consent for a year after the termination of the
three-year contract.

A more strongly worded part of that contract could be read as "you may not
reveal anything to anyone without our permission," according to Dr. Naimark. The
hospital did nothing to stop Dr. Olivieri from telling patients about the new
results, according to the report. In fact, it made sure that was done.

But Dr. Naimark noted that, on two or three occasions, Apotex tried to "stiff
arm" its interpretation of Dr. Olivieri's research to the research-ethics board.

Apotex threatened legal action when Dr. Olivieri started to inform patients and
regulatory agencies about the efficacy of the drug and prepared to publish her
results.

This is where the issue of how much support the hospital gave Dr. Olivieri --
legally and morally -- gets muddy.

The report suggests hospital and University of Toronto officials made
representations to Apotex to persuade the company to stop threatening legal
action -- but did not inform Dr. Olivieri they had done so.

Dr. Naimark conceded the report would have been more complete had Dr. Olivieri
and her supporters participated.

Dr. Brenda Gallie, a senior hospital scientist, and other supporters of Dr.
Olivieri plan to hold a news conference today to give their detailed assessment
of the report.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       April 13, 2015 Monday 1:48 PM GMT

Midlands hospitals pay out £45 million in just 12 months for clinical
negligence;
Heart of England NHS trust hit by biggest bill for £13.9 million

BYLINE: By Alison Stacey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 830 words


CASH-strapped hospitals in the West Midlands spent £45 million in just one year
on clinical negligence claims.

The Heart of England NHS Trust, which runs Heartlands, Good Hope and Solihull
hospitals had the biggest bill in the region - £13.9 million for 2013-14.

The Trust also paid more for lawyers than any other group in England - coughing
up £1.5 million in legal fees.

Payouts include patients of surgeon Ian Paterson, who carried unlicensed and
unnecessary operations on hundreds of women at Solihull Hospital.

It is understood that one former breast cancer patient received a payout of
£270,000 alone, with at least 157 others already settled.

In another case Hayley Sanders received a five-figure sum from the Trust sum in
October 2013.

The young mum needed an urgent hysterectomy after Heartlands Hospital discharged
her with an untreated infection after the birth of her son Jayden in December
2009 - when she was just 19.

Hospital staff performed multiple internal examinations, but failed to act on
four high temperature readings following complications on December 27, 2009.

Hayley was discharged, but just two days later she was rushed back to hospital
and spent days in the high dependency unit.

She fell into a coma as her body was taken over by a bacterial infection.

Doctors were left with no choice but to perform a complete hysterectomy to save
her life.

The shocking figures, published by the NHS Litigation Authority, show the Trust
had to spend another £3.6 million paying claimants' legal costs and a further
£8.8 million paying damages in cases it lost.

The costs are slightly less than the previous year, where the bill was £14.3
million which included payouts to lawyers, claimants, and paying claimant's
legal fees.

But the Trust insisted that the figures did not reflect the quality of patient
care at its hospitals, and the huge sum was largely due to claims against 'rogue
surgeon' Ian Paterson.

Andrew Catto, deputy chief executive and executive medical director, Heart of
England NHS Foundation Trust, said: "Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust is
one of the largest Trust in the region treating over 1.2 million patients every
year.

"Whilst we regret the significant impact that the process of taking legal action
can have on patients, the majority of these litigation costs account for the
pro-active approach that the Trust has taken to compensate the NHS patients of
Mr Ian Paterson.

"This includes increased legal costs for the Trust in defending the claims
concerning private sector treatment performed by Mr Paterson.

"We continue to be committed to providing the highest standards of patient care
and are taking steps to make our care safer and thereby reduce the cost of
medical litigation."

Elsewhere in the region the Dudley Group of Hospitals trust, which runs Russells
Hall Hospital had the second largest legal bill at £5.9 million.

But the Trust insisted that the pay outs were from cases as far back as 1996.

A spokeswoman said: "The amount of compensation paid out on behalf of the Trust
in 2013/14 included settlement of some claims raised in previous years as far
back as 1996. The amount paid covers final settlements, staged payments to
claimants and interim payments to claimants (where liability has been admitted).

"The Dudley Group pays an annual premium to the NHS Litigation Authority and
they deal with claims on our behalf.

"To minimise the number of claims made against the Trust, we carry out a review
of clinical practices when a claim has been made and implement changes, if
necessary, to our practices."

The Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust has the biggest bill in England, spending
£22.4 million paying lawyers and damages for clinical negligence claims in
2013-14.

But Dia Chakravarty, Political Director at the TaxPayers' Alliance, said that
hospitals need to do more to protect money that could be going on vital
treatment.

She added: "These figures mean either that the hospitals are falling short of
the duty of care expected of them, or that they are far too quick to pay off
negligence claims, either way it's hard-pressed taxpayers who are losing out.

"The NHS needs to do better so that more of taxpayers money is spent on nurses
and cancer drugs instead of expensive legal bills."

Full list of total costs for the region:

Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust £382,167

Birmingham Children's Hospital NHS Foundation Trust £1,096,885

Birmingham Community Healthcare £49,289

Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust £2,223,160

Black Country Partnership NHS Foundation Trust £18,161

Dudley and Walsall Mental Health Partnership Trust £274,993

Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust £13,948,329

Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust £4,445,266

The Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust £5,928,183

The Royal Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Foundation Trust £2,259,266

The Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust £5,289,727

University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust £4,918,654

Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust £4,074,429

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       March 11, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Adolescent, Pingnan Court Action

LENGTH: 724  words


Beijing, March 11 -- In recent years, Ping County People's Court to strengthen
judicial functions, innovative ways of working, caring and carry out activities
to protect young children actively involved in youth carefully interest in the
adjudication of cases, the full protection of the legitimate rights and
interests of young people, and achieved good results.



Legal education base: the cradle of youth legal education

"Today I saw a lot about juvenile delinquency cases, shocking, in the future I
have to learn, do not do illegal things." A high school student, after visiting
the youth court's legal education base in an interview with reporters, said with
emotion. December 13, 2013, Pingnan County People's Court has invited the ring
of high level CCP 160 students walked into the court, "Zero" feel the work of
the Court, to give them a lesson in a lively and meaningful legal education
lesson.

In 2010, the hospital established a legal education base Pingnan, 2012, the
hospital set up a working committee on women, the Next Generation Working
Committee, in order to better carry out legal education, the hospital "Next
Generation Committee" fully the role of legal education Pingnan base, from time
to time to the young students, "Please come in", and actively carry out legal
education and improve their legal awareness, legal awareness, and to make them
from primary law, knowing, understanding, and more to do to the law, to prevent
and reduce juvenile delinquency. Since 2013, the hospital has invited more than
300 young students to visit the court to carry out the judge to send France into
school activities twice, distribute promotional materials, more than 600 copies.


After contracting mechanism innovation: for the young offenders rebuild lives

"Human life, the road slowly, there is always the wrong time, the wrong way is
not terrible, the key is to be mending their ways, I hope you use it to climb
from where to where it falls, rehabilitation and start over." This is Ping
County Court Criminal Division judge in a return visit in the ardent desire for
young offenders.

In recent years, helping to "stumble" youth, prevention and reduction of "slip"
juvenile recidivism, hospital after contracting an active extension and
innovative mechanisms to develop a series of crimes against minors after hearing
the characteristics of measures to achieve the pre-trial heavy "check", focus on
understanding the defendant before the trial's upbringing, mental state, growing
environment, past performance, and other causes of crime; atrium heavy "teach"
the trial to judicial officers as the center, and fully mobilize the public
prosecutor, counsel, legal representative, from different angles law, reason,
emotion, and the accused legal, moral, life, family, pleaded guilty and
promising a full range of education; "help" the backyard, by taking telephone
interviews , home visits to carry out the work of tracking helpers juvenile
criminal cases, so that they Mituzhifan anew.

"Going out" Prussian: escort for young people

December 10, 2013, Ping County Court Judge Tribunal carried into the third
secondary school level nanzhen legal advocacy activities. Judges legal education
by playing pieces, issuing prevention of juvenile delinquency promotional
materials, live interactive quiz and other forms of legal knowledge, to attract
students to take part in publicity and education activities to the rule of law.
Judges rule interesting propaganda activities, to provide a good platform for
students to understand the legal knowledge to enhance the students' awareness of
the law.

In recent years, the hospital attaches great importance to legal education of
young people, take advantage of the timing of Children's Day and other holidays,
legal advocacy, legal literacy, and enhance the legal awareness. In addition,
the hospital juvenile cases involving alimony, child support, labor remuneration
opened a "green channel", the implementation of "one stop service" priority
filing, priority processing, precedence, so stand fast fast fast trial knot.
According to statistics, the hospital since the creation of the national
"women's civilization Kong" has accumulated through the "green channel" filing
298, 723 pre-trial mediation, the parties to really handle economic difficulties
litigation costs ease, reduce, avoid 545,617 yuan.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                             August 18, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

City vasectomy blunder doctor loses job at NHS;
Op reversal surgery at hospital failed, ECHO understands

BYLINE: HELEN DAVIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 522 words


A SURGEON who gave a man a vasectomy by mistake has been sacked, the ECHO
understands.

It is also understood that an attempt to reverse the blunder has failed.

The urology department at Broadgreen hospital has now admitted the vasectomy
error was just one of five botched operations in 12 months.

The vasectomy incident and another mistake - believed to be a swab left inside
someone - are being described by health chiefs as "never events" - medical
mistakes that should never happen.

When the ECHO revealed earlier this year a man undergoing a minor operation had
been given a vasectomy by mistake, the hospital "apologised unreservedly" to the
patient. It is now understood the man has been told a procedure to correct the
error did not work.

This means that although he may still be able to have children through IVF, he
will not be able to have children naturally.

Ian Cohen, clinical negligence lawyer at Slater & Gordon, said the patient could
be eligible for more than £100,000 in compensation, but it would depend on how
old he is and whether or not he has been left infertile.

On top of this, the trust could have to cover legal fees.

Mr Cohen said: "In a case like this where the hospital has said it's made a
mistake, the NHS Litigation Authority (LA) should encourage the hospital to hold
its hands up, "The NHS LA have an objective that in cases where there's a clear
claim for compensation that it's dealt with swiftly.

"If it was dealt with quickly, the legal fees, both for the hospital and the
person claiming, would be quite limited. The legal fees wouldn't be much more
than a couple of thousand.

"If the view is taken to defend the case, the legal fees go up."

Mr Cohen added that the age of the patient could also affect how bad the
emotional impact of the blunder is.

He said: "If a 25-year-old who wants a family is told he won't be able to father
children, it will be devastating."

Another three errors in the department have been classed as "serious events".

Hospital bosses say the blunders have been reported to NHS chiefs and that
investigations are under way to establish how they happened.

Dr Peter Williams, medical director at Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University
Hospitals NHS Trust, said: "Our urology department is the biggest in Cheshire
and Merseyside, caring for over 4,000 patients a year.

"The vast majority of feedback from these patients is overwhelmingly positive.
We have excellent, highly regarded clinical teams who treat the most difficult
urological cases, many of which are referred to us by other hospitals for our
expertise and leading edge surgical techniques.

"In the last 12 months, three serious incidents and two never events occurred in
our urology department and these were reported to the appropriate bodies. We are
still in the process of investigating some of these incidents, including looking
at how to improve the processes and systems in place and are taking appropriate
action. We cannot comment on the outcomes of these investigations at this stage.

"Patient safety is always our priority and we use the lessons learnt from any
incident to continually improve our standard of care."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Broadgreen hospital entrance ¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                            November 19, 2006 Sunday

Report: Hospital charity care flatlines

BYLINE: By Michael Manekin, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SAN MATEO

LENGTH: 755 words


Imagine earning $7 an hour and getting slapped with a $25,000 hospital bill.

Now, that's sticker shock.

But here's the real shocker: Low-income patients at many state hospitals are
entitled to receive a discount or even free care -- and hospitals have violated
their obligation to the uninsured by failing to inform them of their rights,
according to a recent study by a nonprofit health consumer advocacy group.

"We see low-income, uninsured consumers with bills from all the major hospitals
in and around San Mateo County, including the public hospitals," said Melissa
Rodgers, an attorney at the Legal Aid Society of San Mateo County and director
of its Health Consumer Center. "They were not offered charity care, and most of
them did not even know charity care was an option. By the time they reached us,
many of them had bills in collection, and the hospitals refused to recall the
debt."

Members of the California Hospital Association are required to offer charity
care -- free or reduced care to the uninsured -- based on guidelines
self-imposed in 2004. Although hospitals typically receive tax benefits in
exchange for the charity care, the report charges that many hospitals do not
even inform patients of their right to financial assistance.

In any case, the voluntary guidelines will be history at the end of theyear.
That's because the Alliance's report comes on the heels of new state legislation
which requires hospitals to treat low-income patients to discounted medical
care.

The new law -- AB 774, sponsored by Assemblywoman Wilma Chan, D-Oakland --
requires hospitals to inform uninsured patients of their obligation to provide
financial assistance, caps the amount patients are charged and limits hospitals'
punitive collection practices.

Why publish a report highlighting problems already solved by state legislation?

According to Rodgers, the report highlights the extent to which voluntary
compliance has failed low-income patients.

"The report is relevant, because the legislation will not implement itself," she
said. "Hopefully, hospitals will make the choice to comply with the new
legislation, but we also hope that an informed public is going to hold the
hospitals accountable."

The report -- courtesy of the Health Consumer Alliance, a network of nine local
health consumer centers -- surveyed 163 hospitals in 15 counties, including six
hospitals in San Mateo County, and alleges numerous violations. Many hospitals
do not even bother to write financial assistance policies, according to the
study. In addition, fewer than two-thirds of the hospitals surveyed posted
notices about their financial assistance programs where patients could see them.

Some hospitals provide inadequate discounts, leaving low-income patients saddled
with debts they cannot pay; others outright charged the patient more than the
cost of care, according to the report.

Many hospitals make their application process overly difficult, while others
resort to punitive payment-collection practices, such as lawsuits, wage
garnishments or liens on primary residences.

The new state legislation, which kicks in the first of the year, will put the
kibosh on such practices and mandate that patients who make under $34,300 (less
than 350 percent of the Federal Poverty Level) must be charged no more than the
rate that hospitals could charge Medicare for patient service.

The report highlights numerous nightmares from the days of hospital
self-regulation, including incidents in San Mateo County.

One uninsured patient was billed $23,000 by the San Mateo Medical Center despite
being enrolled in the county's WELL program, which offers the uninsured low-cost
care. Another patient was billed $125,000 for an emergency-room visit at Sequoia
Hospital, according to the Legal Aid Society.

Medical Center spokesman David Hook was aware of the Alliance's report, but
could not comment on the specific case involved. A call to Sequoia Hospital was
not returned before press time.

Although both local cases were resolved when patients sought help from the Legal
Aid Society, Rodgers contends that the billing was unacceptable.

"People shouldn't have to come to a lawyer for help with these kinds of things
-- especially when you have hospitals with voluntary guidelines that say they
will advise people about charity care and provide it to them," she said.

To see the full report, visit
healthconsumer.org/HospitalFinancialAssistanceRpt.pdf.

Staff writer Michael Manekin can be reached at (650) 348-4331 or by e-mail at
mmanekin@sanmateocountytimes.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            April 26, 2017 Wednesday

Maternity hospital row: Health official did not tell Simon Harris of concerns

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 468 words


The fresh controversy emerged last night as St Vincent s Hospital Group
published the 25-page legal independence document for the hospital and Holles
Street s clinical director said it will perform any legal procedure when it
opens, potentially including abortions, despite ongoing fears it will fall under
religious control.

Speaking on RTÉ Radio s Morning Ireland, Holles Street board member Peter Boylan
who will refuse to resign over his criticism of the hospital site at a board
meeting this evening   claimed the department was warned of the religious
interference concerns a year ago.

Citing a letter from 2016, Dr Boylan said Department of Health secretary general
Jim Breslin was told of the concerns by the HSE s Ireland East Hospital Group
chairman, Tom Lynch.

Senior department sources later insisted no such letter exists.

However, the department last night confirmed that Mr Breslin was informed of the
concerns in a formal meeting about a number of issues with Mr Lynch in May 2016,
during which he was handed a document on  potential resolutions of the
difficulties that had arisen  at the site.

The Irish Examiner separately understands that Mr Lynch also raised the
religious interference concerns in a conversation with Mr Breslin at the same
meeting.

However, it is understood Mr Harris was not told of, and is still unaware of,
any issues raised at that time.

Meanwhile, the St Vincent s Healthcare Group has again attempted to address
concerns that the new national maternity hospital may be subject to religious
interference by insisting it will perform any legal procedure when it opens.

In a statement last night coinciding with the publication of the new hospital s
previously leaked 25-page memorandum of understanding, St Vincent s lashed out
at  entirely false  claims by Dr Boylan and others.

The statement said the clinical independence of the facility will be enshrined
in the memorandum, and specifically noted the legal independence assurances of
its deal, which include:

A ministerial  golden share  veto to protect its autonomy;

Agreed reserve powers  to ensure services  without religious, ethnic, or other
distinction ;

Guarantees that St Vincent s Healthcare Group will be the sole  owner  of the
new company governing the maternity hospital and will fall under the influence
of the State.

Speaking on RTE s Six One News, Holles Street clinical director Prof Declan
Keane went further, saying the new hospital will provide any legal procedure,
saying  absolutely, absolutely  when asked if this will potential include
abortions.

The Holles Street board will meet this evening to discuss the ongoing
controversy and calls for Prof Boylan to resign for criticising the chosen site.

Prof Boylan yesterday said:  I have no regrets. I am glad I did [speak out]. I
ll resign when I m ready.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Angry patients blame and beat up the doctors;
Lawsuits against mainland hospitals can drag on for years and people resort to
drastic action over claims

BYLINE: Zhuang Pinghui and Alice Yan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 475 words


Families dressed in mourning clothes are a regular sight at mainland hospitals,
as are attacks on doctors by disgruntled patients or their relatives.

While some are professional yi nao (medical hooligans), paid to put pressure on
hospitals so that they pay compensation claims quickly, others are patients just
trying to find out whether their suffering can be linked to malpractice.

A Beijing lawyer specialising in medical lawsuits says they turn to dramatic
protest action because the regular, legal way for patients to seek redress is a
long, bumpy road.

Zhu Yonggen, a lawyer at King Virtue Attorneys at Law,  said patients were
usually at a disadvantage when pursuing a lawsuit.

After the mainland's tort law, which governs legal liabilities under civil law
for wrongful action, was reinforced in July last year, patients have to provide
evidence that a medical blunder caused the damage they suffered. But patients
lacking medical knowledge have a hard time proving they have been wronged,
especially when their medical charts and records are kept in hospitals and are
inaccessible.

"When legal proceedings start, the medical record should be sealed but the first
reaction of a hospital is to window dress the medical records, such as
describing the patient as being in a more serious condition or completing a
chart. It happens in all the cases I represent, even the big, famous ones," Zhu
said.

The tort law stipulates hospitals will be held liable if medical charts are
forged, fabricated or destroyed but that is often an unresolved matter of
dispute.

Apart from the technical barriers, the legal process can take anything from six
months to several years.

Wang Baoluo, who stabbed Xu Wen, a prominent ear, nose and throat surgeon at
Beijing Tongren Hospital in September, inflicting multiple wounds to her arms,
forehead, neck, back and left leg, was engaged in a lawsuit against the hospital
for three years. It got bogged down in a dispute over whether his medical
records were genuine.

Wang Jian, chief of general surgery at Shanghai's Renji Hospital, said many
patients choose not to go through the legal process because they believe a
hospital will pay more compensation if they cause unrest.

He said patients also distrust the courts and the committees of medical experts
that decide malpractice cases. But Wang, a member of Shanghai's malpractice
committee, said the members were impartial and did not favour hospitals or
doctors.

Wang said the tense situation had a lot to do with the unbalanced allocation of
medical resources which resulted in expensive and inaccessible medical care and
bills that were a heavy burden for patients.

Doctors were the victims of a resentful society with low morality and a hunger
for money, he said.

"Disgruntled patients blame and beat up doctors, which is unbelievable anywhere
in the world," Wang said.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mourners in front of Youan Hospital in Beijing. Photo: ImagineChina

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                             April 18, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Stand-in doctor cleared

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 421 words


The legal duty of doctors when they cover for each other has come into the
spotlight after a recent Durban High Court judgment dealing with medical
negligence.

In the case, Judge Johan Ploos van Amstel ruled that Dr Abdool Suliman could not
be found responsible for birth defects suffered by a baby after being deprived
of oxygen while his mother was in labour.

The judge said while there was a "serious lapse which fell short of the degree
of care and expertise that was expected of him", he had been unable to find that
had he acted as it is said he should have, the outcome would have been avoided.

The court was dealing with a case in which the parents of the baby took legal
action against Life Healthcare and the specialist who delivered him at Crompton
Hospital, in Pinetown, in July 2008.

The matter was settled out of court and the parents were awarded damages.

The judge said Suliman denied he was negligent and said any settlement was made
without this admission.

But the hospital group took Suliman to court seeking a contribution from him
towards the damages.

However Judge Ploos van Amstel dismissed the hospital's claim, saying the onus
was on the hospital group to link the doctor's negligence with the cerebral
palsy suffered by the baby.

The baby's mother was admitted to hospital at 10am.

Her own doctor was not available, but had arranged with Suliman to cover for
him.

Hospital staff called Suliman and he advised on treatment for the mother and was
given telephonic updates until around 9.20pm when he arrived at the hospital and
discovered that the baby was in distress and had to be delivered immediately.

Suliman's legal team had argued that he owed the patient no legal duty until he
arrived at the hospital.

But Judge Ploos van Amstel said Suliman had owed the patient a legal duty from
the time that he was notified of her admission.

"The question is whether this would have avoided the harm that caused the
cerebral palsy," he said.

In response to questions from The Mercury, Suliman's attorney Sivi Pather, from
Pather and Pather Attorneys, said as far as the firm was aware, this was the
first time that a medical malpractice case dealing with one doctor covering for
another had come before a court in this country.

"There is nothing in the medical legislation or ethical rules that deals with
how covering is to take place, albeit that the judge in this matter accepted
that covering is a universal practice."

Barries Barnard, manager of Crompton Hospital, said the group intended to appeal
against the judgment.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                            October 13, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Children's hospital hitch;
Fears that legal case will be 'another nail in the coffin' of delayed project

BYLINE: Eanna Drury

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 606 words


A FURTHER delay to the completion of the new National Children's Hospital
threatened by new legal proceedings has been decried as 'another nail in the
coffin' for the long-running project.

Jonathan Irwin, the head of the Jack & Jill children's charity, added in his
criticism that the country can ill afford the mounting costs associated with the
development given the delays.

The hospital has been costed at (EURO)650million but this could increase with
delays and legal disputes.

An application for judicial review at the High Court has been initiated against
the National Paediatric Hospital Development Board by firesafety consultants
initially chosen by way of tender this year.

Listed for mention on Friday, the application is the latest in a series of
events which have delayed the project at St James's Hospital, which was first
announced by former health minister James Reilly.

Mary Harney, the former minister of health and children, initially announced in
2006 that the hospital would be developed at the Mater Hospital site. However,
this fell through due to planning issues.

Some (EURO)40million had been spent on the doomed inner-city project for the
setting up of the hospital at the Mater before An Bord Pleanála deemed it an
unsuitable site.

The design team for the new hospital announced last month that the hospital
would open in spring 2019, however the new legal proceedings could well push it
back further.

Mr Irwin, who campaigned for a site at Blanchardstown to be used instead, said:
'The news of the judicial review application is just another disaster. I find it
totally extraordinary. This news of legal proceedings is just another nail in
the coffin.

'It could keep the process going forever with no end result.' The CEO of the
Jack & Jill Foundation added: 'I just don't think we can afford this hospital
any more - either financially or politically.' The board, during legal
correspondence with the applicants, emphasised that the proceedings would 'have
a significant impact' on the project's progress. It has now withdrawn its tender
for the fire-consultancy contract and expects to issue a new one before the
year's end.

A spokesman for the board confirmed 'it is expected that the contract will be
awarded in December 2014'. The application for judicial review has been brought
against the board by FCC Fire Cert, which originally won the contract.

Following talks, the board reversed its decision on August 13. The Dublin
company will argue that the rules of competition were changed.

FCC Fire Company was assisted in its bid by Tenos, a UK company who were to
provide 3D visual aids for FCC's bid. After securing the contract, FCC was
informed that Tenos would have to provide an undertaking of joint liability. FCC
protested, arguing this requirement hadn't been included in the tender's
original conditions, and refused to comply with the board's demands. The
contract, valued at around (EURO)400,000, was then offered to Maurice Johnson
and Partners, which had placed second in the original tender process. It had
held the original contract for fire-safety services before the hospital's forced
location change to St James's.

The cost of designing the hospital is estimated at (EURO)35million.

However, Mr Irwin questioned the suitability of the St James's site, which he
said was in a dangerous area and decided upon in a rushed manner by the
Government. He said: 'I'd prefer a country site, with fresh air... To add to it
all, it's in a very dangerous part of town.' He said one St James's doctor told
him they feared 'this project would send the hospital into lockdown'.

Comment - Page 12 reporter@dailymail.ie

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2014 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

When Poverty Makes You Sick, a Lawyer Can Be the Cure

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1809 words



HIGHLIGHT: Legal and medical professionals are joining forces to treat the
social and environmental factors that make poor people sick.


By early summer 2010, the temperature had already reached 100 degrees in
Cincinnati. At Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, doctors were
urging the families of children with asthma to use air-conditioning. One mother
handed a piece of paper to her doctor: The child's room did have a window unit,
and she was using it. But then the landlord responded - he apparently didn't
want to pay the electric bills. Use that air-conditioner, the letter said, and
you will be evicted.

A concerned doctor might have tried to call the landlord to fight the notice.
Or, she might have handed the letter over to a social worker. But Cincinnati
Children's had something better - it had lawyers. In 2008, the hospital and the
Legal Aid Society of Greater Cincinnati set up a medical-legal partnership, the
Cincinnati Child Health-Law Partnership or Child HeLP.

A week later, another family came in with the same letter. And the week after
that.

"Our lawyers were getting the same problem referred over and over in a short
period of time," said Elaine Fink, who is the co-leader of Child HeLP. "They
looked at the map ­- they were all in the same neighborhood. They looked to see
who owned the buildings. In this case we hit bingo ­- the same owner."

That was the Brooklyn-based NY Group, which held 18 buildings in Cincinnati and
one in Dayton. Many tenants in those buildings had ended up at Child HeLP - to
get help with mold, water damage, structural perils, rodents or bug
infestations.

Child HeLP wrote to NY Group, including in its letters statements by physicians
about the health impacts of its legal violations. It sued on behalf of one
severely disabled boy with a tracheotomy whose health depended on
air-conditioning. The repairs were done in a few weeks.

But the point was not just to help individual patients - it was to improve
conditions in the buildings for all tenants. At the same time, NY Group was
walking away from the buildings - Fannie Mae foreclosed on all 19 by the end of
July. Legal Aid helped tenants to organize and have a voice in the foreclosure
process - among other things, they wanted to make sure that the buildings remain
subsidized housing.

Ultimately that pressure resulted in widespread repairs, and helped persuade
Fannie Mae to sell the buildings to Community Builders, a Boston-based nonprofit
that develops and operates good low-income housing (which is maintaining the
subsidies). Reconstruction is about to start.

Being poor can make you sick. Where you work, the air you breathe, the state of
your housing, what you eat, your levels of stress and your vulnerability to
crime, injury and discrimination all affect your health. These social
determinants of health lie outside the reach of doctors and nurses.

In the early 1990s, Barry Zuckerman, the chief of pediatrics at Boston City
Hospital (now Boston Medical Center), decided he was tired of seeing kids
cycling back into the hospital again and again - asthmatic kids who never got
better because of the mold in their houses, infants with breathing problems
because their apartments were unheated. He'd write letters to the landlord, who
ignored them, said Megan Sandel, who was an intern there at the time. Then at a
cocktail party, someone listening to his complaints asked Zuckerman: What does
the law say?

Zuckerman thought it was an important question. In 1993, he established the
Family Advocacy Program with three lawyers to prod landlords, secure government
benefits families were entitled to and fight with Medicaid, insurance companies,
schools and other bureaucracies.

(Zuckerman deserves his own wing in medicine's hall of innovation - he also
co-founded Reach Out and Read, which supplies books and encourages doctors to
prescribe them and family reading for kids. And he is co-founder of Health
Leads, a

program that trains college students to connect patients to food, heat and other
basics of health.)

There were few medical-legal partnerships until about five or 10 years ago, but
now 231 health care institutions have them, according to the National Center for
Medical-Legal Partnership. The largest is New York's LegalHealth, which works in
about 20 New York hospitals and is expanding - it will soon have clinics in all
11 of the city's public hospitals.

Medical-legal partnerships are growing in part because of increasing attention
to social determinants of health. Talking about inequality means talking about
the vicious cycles that keep people poor; one of the most important is the
intersection of poverty and health. "And sometimes a new asthma inhaler isn't
going to solve the problem," said Martha Bergmark, executive director of Voices
for Civil Justice, and until recently director of the Mississippi Center for
Justice.

The vast majority of low-income Americans have unresolved legal problems: debt,
immigration status, custody issues, child care, benefits, back pay, housing, a
special education plan for a child - you name it. All of these affect stress
levels, which is in itself a health issue, but many have a more direct
connection to health.

Medicaid in New York State is now, in some cases, paying for supportive housing.
(Medicaid has long bought housing in the form of nursing homes, of course.) This
WNYC radio story describes one formerly homeless woman now in a Medicaid-paid
apartment. "You could treat her epilepsy until the cows come home, but without
an appropriate place to live she was going to be sick," said Bergmark.

Clinics that have medical-legal partnerships approach health differently than
others. When doctors have no options for helping patients with the social
determinants of health, they tend not to ask about them. With a medical-legal
partnership, they do. At Cincinnati Children's, each patient's family is asked:
Do you have housing problems? Problems getting your benefits? Are you depressed?
Are you unsafe in your relationship? Would you like to speak to a lawyer or
social worker about any of these things?

That process can start right away. "We have attorneys and paralegals on site in
the primary care center five days a week," said Fink. "Many times we get a legal
aid attorney to walk down the hall to talk to family while the child is waiting
to get immunizations."

A legal letter can often get a response where a doctor's or social worker's
letter does not. The lawyers also save doctors time. "Everyone works at the top
of their profession instead of the physician figuring out why mom is going to be
evicted tomorrow and what they can do about it," said Ellen Lawton, co-principal
investigator at the National Center for Medical-Legal Partnership.

The reverse is also true: adding doctors makes legal work easier. Lawton said
that lawyers' arguments carry more weight when they include a medical opinion.
"The health of the kids changes the advocacy conversation," she said. "It goes
from 'this is the law and you have to comply' to a conversation that's about
community well-being and health. And when you're able to use the clinical
viewpoint rather than a legal framework, you're able to resolve the issue much
more rapidly."

Most important, a medical-legal partnership goes beyond curing an individual.
Child HeLP's actions in Cincinnati's sick buildings made life better for all the
families there. "Don't wait for the kids to be sick," said Sandel, who is now
the medical director of the national medical-legal partnership center. "Look for
the pattern and find what's making kids sick in the first place. The power of
the model is moving upstream, going from person to person to population level" -
legal action as preventive medicine.

Like other forms of preventive care, medical-legal clinics are a bargain. One
striking example: New York City's LegalHealth wrote formal legal demand letters
to help adult asthma patients get their apartments cleared of rodents, bugs,
mold, water and structural damage. The apartments were fixed. Patients improved,
drastically, and there was a 90 percent drop in emergency room visits and
hospital admissions. This was achieved by a one-shot intervention that cost an
average of $225 per case.

But while society may save money, that's not necessarily true for hospitals -
and it's hospitals that make the decisions. Fee-for-service medicine rewards
hospitals for more admissions and emergency room usage, not less, and doesn't
reimburse hospitals for preventive services such as legal aid. Nor can legal aid
lawyers rely on funding from the federal Legal Services Corporation, which never
recovered from the Reagan administration's cuts.

Increasingly, though, hospitals are establishing and paying for medical-legal
partnerships, despite the lack of reimbursement. (New York City's Health and
Hospitals Corporation is paying for part of the expansion of LegalHealth, with
other major funding from the Robin Hood Foundation, an anti-poverty group.) One
reason is the growing move toward value-based reimbursement instead of
fee-for-service - for example, Medicare now rewards hospitals for having low
rates of readmission and good scores on safety measures. Nonmedical staff
members such as social workers - and lawyers - are becoming a better investment.

Kerry J. Rodabaugh, a gynecologic oncologist at the University of Nebraska
Medical Center, started a medical-legal partnership at an earlier job at the
Roswell Cancer Center in Buffalo. She studied how often lawyers were able to get
patients into insurance or benefit programs, which allows hospitals to be
reimbursed for their care. She wrote a paper on the partnership's work and the
savings.

At Nebraska, Rodabaugh established a medical-legal partnership in her
department.

"In order to get funding for my program I've had to prove a financial benefit,"
she said. "I've been able to document at my current program a 700 percent return
on investment since 2009. When I'm talking to administrators they get very
excited." Now U.N.M.C. is expanding these clinics to every department and to its
primary care clinics in places with significant poverty.

"So much of child health is the result of poor social and physical living
conditions for kids - food on the table, shelter, quality education," said
Robert S. Kahn, a pediatrician at Cincinnati Children's who is the medical
co-leader of Child HeLP. "So much of what we do in pediatrics is driven by these
broader well-being issues for the family. We do much better when we partner with
groups that have that as a mission."

Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. To
receive e-mail alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.

Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book "The Haunted Land: Facing
Europe's Ghosts After Communism." She is a former editorial writer for The Times
and the author, most recently, of "Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can
Transform the World" and the World War II spy story e-book "D for Deception."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Carleton Place

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Sick Kids Hospital program prescribes legal remedies for families in need

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 639  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


TORONTO - Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children is launching an innovative
program that is adding lawyers to the teams of doctors, nurses and therapists
who care for its young patients.

The hospital has teamed with Pro Bono Law Ontario and two local law firms to
provide free legal assistance for non-medical issues that may threaten a
family's ability to care for their sick child.

Parents or caregivers with legal difficulties - such as being fired from a job
because of time spent at the hospital with their child - are referred by
hospital staff to the Legal Family Health Program's on-site "triage" lawyer.

"Every day at Sick Kids, we see children who are affected by the social
determinants of health, which are defined as the conditions in which people live
and work that impact their health and well-being," said Dr. Ted McNeill,
director of social work.

"This program is aimed at families who may be experiencing financial hardship
and who might otherwise not be able to have access to legal services."

While officially launching this month, a testing phase of the program that began
in the spring has brought in an average of 30 referrals a month, said McNeill.
"We feel that it will meet a real need that exists within the patient population
that we serve."

Program lawyer Lee Ann Chapman said she can meet with families in her office or
at the child's bedside. Some issues she can solve herself, while others are
referred to pro bono lawyers who specialize in various areas of law.

Chapman said legal problems range from immigration issues to taking on landlords
over mouldy apartments that exacerbate a child's asthma.

Cindy and Jeff Desbiens of Waterloo, Ont., turned to the legal program after
Revenue Canada refused to allow their claim for about $12,000 in travel and
other expenses related to their daughter Charolette's prolonged stay in Sick
Kids Hospital.

Charolette, now three years old, was born with a life-threatening heart defect,
which required several surgeries during a 4 1/2-month hospital stay.

"When Charolette was struggling and things were critical during the surgery and
recovery, we were both here," said Cindy Desbiens. The couple was also caring
for their older daughter at the time.

"So we were trying to balance the needs of both of the children in two different
cities," she said, explaining that she and her husband travelled back and forth
to Waterloo to cover weekdays and weekends with Charolette.

Revenue Canada disallowed their claim because they said the parents were just
"visiting" their child, said Desbiens, allowing that she felt almost insulted by
that term.

"I felt that that didn't acknowledge the role we played. We weren't just
visiting, we were parenting Charolette."

The cost of travel and spending all those months away from home was an extra
stress added to the burden of having an extremely sick child - but having to
fight the government for a tax reimbursement on top of that added yet another
layer of distress, she said.

"We were certainly relieved, to say the least, to know that we were going to
have help," said Desbiens. The tax lawyer the family was referred to challenged
the Revenue Canada decision and the federal department chose not to contest it.

Having the legal health program to turn to "meant there was a huge load lifted
off our shoulders," she said. "It was one less thing that we had to deal with
when we were already dealing with a great deal."

McNeill said the in-hospital legal program is believed to be the first of its
kind in Canada.

"What we think is creative and innovative about the program is that it brings
the availability of a lawyer to health-care teams," he said. "In that way it
recognizes that there are issues beyond the narrow medical treatment of the
condition or the disease that must be addressed if we're going to be successful
caring for a child."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Sick Kids Hospital program prescribes legal remedies for families in need

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 639  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


TORONTO - Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children is launching an innovative
program that is adding lawyers to the teams of doctors, nurses and therapists
who care for its young patients.

The hospital has teamed with Pro Bono Law Ontario and two local law firms to
provide free legal assistance for non-medical issues that may threaten a
family's ability to care for their sick child.

Parents or caregivers with legal difficulties - such as being fired from a job
because of time spent at the hospital with their child - are referred by
hospital staff to the Legal Family Health Program's on-site "triage" lawyer.

"Every day at Sick Kids, we see children who are affected by the social
determinants of health, which are defined as the conditions in which people live
and work that impact their health and well-being," said Dr. Ted McNeill,
director of social work.

"This program is aimed at families who may be experiencing financial hardship
and who might otherwise not be able to have access to legal services."

While officially launching this month, a testing phase of the program that began
in the spring has brought in an average of 30 referrals a month, said McNeill.
"We feel that it will meet a real need that exists within the patient population
that we serve."

Program lawyer Lee Ann Chapman said she can meet with families in her office or
at the child's bedside. Some issues she can solve herself, while others are
referred to pro bono lawyers who specialize in various areas of law.

Chapman said legal problems range from immigration issues to taking on landlords
over mouldy apartments that exacerbate a child's asthma.

Cindy and Jeff Desbiens of Waterloo, Ont., turned to the legal program after
Revenue Canada refused to allow their claim for about $12,000 in travel and
other expenses related to their daughter Charolette's prolonged stay in Sick
Kids Hospital.

Charolette, now three years old, was born with a life-threatening heart defect,
which required several surgeries during a 4 1/2-month hospital stay.

"When Charolette was struggling and things were critical during the surgery and
recovery, we were both here," said Cindy Desbiens. The couple was also caring
for their older daughter at the time.

"So we were trying to balance the needs of both of the children in two different
cities," she said, explaining that she and her husband travelled back and forth
to Waterloo to cover weekdays and weekends with Charolette.

Revenue Canada disallowed their claim because they said the parents were just
"visiting" their child, said Desbiens, allowing that she felt almost insulted by
that term.

"I felt that that didn't acknowledge the role we played. We weren't just
visiting, we were parenting Charolette."

The cost of travel and spending all those months away from home was an extra
stress added to the burden of having an extremely sick child - but having to
fight the government for a tax reimbursement on top of that added yet another
layer of distress, she said.

"We were certainly relieved, to say the least, to know that we were going to
have help," said Desbiens. The tax lawyer the family was referred to challenged
the Revenue Canada decision and the federal department chose not to contest it.

Having the legal health program to turn to "meant there was a huge load lifted
off our shoulders," she said. "It was one less thing that we had to deal with
when we were already dealing with a great deal."

McNeill said the in-hospital legal program is believed to be the first of its
kind in Canada.

"What we think is creative and innovative about the program is that it brings
the availability of a lawyer to health-care teams," he said. "In that way it
recognizes that there are issues beyond the narrow medical treatment of the
condition or the disease that must be addressed if we're going to be successful
caring for a child."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Metroland Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Waterloo Chronicle

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Sick Kids Hospital program prescribes legal remedies for families in need

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 639  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


TORONTO - Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children is launching an innovative
program that is adding lawyers to the teams of doctors, nurses and therapists
who care for its young patients.

The hospital has teamed with Pro Bono Law Ontario and two local law firms to
provide free legal assistance for non-medical issues that may threaten a
family's ability to care for their sick child.

Parents or caregivers with legal difficulties - such as being fired from a job
because of time spent at the hospital with their child - are referred by
hospital staff to the Legal Family Health Program's on-site "triage" lawyer.

"Every day at Sick Kids, we see children who are affected by the social
determinants of health, which are defined as the conditions in which people live
and work that impact their health and well-being," said Dr. Ted McNeill,
director of social work.

"This program is aimed at families who may be experiencing financial hardship
and who might otherwise not be able to have access to legal services."

While officially launching this month, a testing phase of the program that began
in the spring has brought in an average of 30 referrals a month, said McNeill.
"We feel that it will meet a real need that exists within the patient population
that we serve."

Program lawyer Lee Ann Chapman said she can meet with families in her office or
at the child's bedside. Some issues she can solve herself, while others are
referred to pro bono lawyers who specialize in various areas of law.

Chapman said legal problems range from immigration issues to taking on landlords
over mouldy apartments that exacerbate a child's asthma.

Cindy and Jeff Desbiens of Waterloo, Ont., turned to the legal program after
Revenue Canada refused to allow their claim for about $12,000 in travel and
other expenses related to their daughter Charolette's prolonged stay in Sick
Kids Hospital.

Charolette, now three years old, was born with a life-threatening heart defect,
which required several surgeries during a 4 1/2-month hospital stay.

"When Charolette was struggling and things were critical during the surgery and
recovery, we were both here," said Cindy Desbiens. The couple was also caring
for their older daughter at the time.

"So we were trying to balance the needs of both of the children in two different
cities," she said, explaining that she and her husband travelled back and forth
to Waterloo to cover weekdays and weekends with Charolette.

Revenue Canada disallowed their claim because they said the parents were just
"visiting" their child, said Desbiens, allowing that she felt almost insulted by
that term.

"I felt that that didn't acknowledge the role we played. We weren't just
visiting, we were parenting Charolette."

The cost of travel and spending all those months away from home was an extra
stress added to the burden of having an extremely sick child - but having to
fight the government for a tax reimbursement on top of that added yet another
layer of distress, she said.

"We were certainly relieved, to say the least, to know that we were going to
have help," said Desbiens. The tax lawyer the family was referred to challenged
the Revenue Canada decision and the federal department chose not to contest it.

Having the legal health program to turn to "meant there was a huge load lifted
off our shoulders," she said. "It was one less thing that we had to deal with
when we were already dealing with a great deal."

McNeill said the in-hospital legal program is believed to be the first of its
kind in Canada.

"What we think is creative and innovative about the program is that it brings
the availability of a lawyer to health-care teams," he said. "In that way it
recognizes that there are issues beyond the narrow medical treatment of the
condition or the disease that must be addressed if we're going to be successful
caring for a child."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                     Marin Independent Journal (Marin, CA)

                             March 1, 2003 Saturday

Marin General ruling a great opportunity

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 432 words


THE RULING OF the state Supreme Court closes the door on a bitter legal battle
over control of Marin General Hospital, but it also signals an opportunity for
both sides to start bridging the chasm that has been created and work together
toward making MGH the best possible community hospital.

The court upheld lower court rulings, rejecting the Marin Healthcare District's
suit that a conflict of interest should invalidate the district's 1985 decision
to enter into a long-term contract for the private management of the public
hospital.

Even with the end of this legal battle, the hospital faces serious challenges.
It has to bring its buildings up to the state's tougher seismic safety
standards, a task that most agree will involve building a new wing onto the
Greenbrae facility. It also faces the dynamics of a fiscal crisis swirling
around health care and a constant demand for modernization.

The legal and political power struggle over MGH has made it additionally
difficult to focus on meeting those challenges.

Today, with state Supreme Court justices calling for an end to the legal fight,
there's an opportunity for both sides to turn their focuses away from courtrooms
and to the jobs that need to get done for the community.

Will the bitterness that has tainted this battle dissipate quickly? Don't bet on
it. The court's ruling was not unexpected, even among supporters of the lawsuit.
But they persisted in the legal fight because they are convinced that the 1985
move to bring in private management of the hospital has left the public with no
effective oversight of its hospital.

That concern remains as a hurdle as the leaders of MGH and the Marin Healthcare
District board, whose focus for five years has been the unraveling of the
private contract, move forward.

The coming months will test the leadership on both sides. Perhaps the end of a
legal battle will open the door to others willing to carve a new, constructive
direction for our community hospital.

Healthcare district board director Suzy Coxhead, who was the only director to
object to the district's costly path of litigation, is optimistic. "I would hope
both the district and hospital boards would look at this as a new opportunity to
start planning together," she said. "By both boards working together, something
can come out of this that is a compromise."

It is time for this struggle to enter a phase of cooperation and community
spirit with a shared goal of making Marin General better. This is a time that
demands strong leadership and requires both sides to rise to the challenge.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

    Copyright 2003 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication


                              233 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 16 1988, Wednesday

Free legal advice at 'teaching hospital'; Educating law students

BYLINE: FRANCES GIBB, Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63240.

LENGTH: 535 words


Radical proposals to create the first 'teaching hospital' for lawyers in
Britain, in which law students would work alongside practising barristers and
solicitors, have won initial approval from the Lord Chancellor.

The hospital, which would be modelled on those in the medical profession, would
be created from barristers' chambers and a solicitors' practice working under
one roof, in association with academics from a law degree course.


A key feature will be a free legal service for members of the public who cannot
obtain legal aid; although the lawyers will also do a normal range of private
practice.

Students will have direct access to live legal cases and be allowed to conduct
minor cases for the public where legal aid is not available, such as in
industrial tribunals.

The Lord Chancellor's officials have asked for further details of the proposals
in the context of the forthcoming Green Paper on the legal profession. Those
proposals are the brainchild of two barristers, Mr Tony Smith, QC, a crown court
recorder, and Miss Nadia Sharif. They want to see the hospital in action by
April if the minimum Pounds 50,000 funds needed can be raised.

Mr Smith says: 'There is as yet no teaching hospital in which students can see
and participate in the totality of the professional world in which they intend
to inhabit: as trainee doctors can'.

The proposals, a new venture in the way they link academic law with the
'clinical' side, coincide with the shake-up of the legal profession expected in
the Green Paper; with the new Legal Aid Board and the prospect of legal advice
work being opened beyond the profession. The hospital would not mean fusion
between the scheme's independent barristers and solicitors but it could lead to
more informal working arrangements between the two branches.

'The chambers and the solicitors' firm will be set up in accordance with
existing professional conduct rules and will maintain the highest professional
standards', Mr Smith said.

'The lawyers will physically be side by side; but the real difference will be a
joint commitment to vocational legal education.'

The hospital would be in Birmingham and would operate with students from
Birmingham Polytechnic's law degree course. The idea could be adopted where
there is a flourishing Bar.

Lord Mackay of Clashfern, the Lord Chancellor, in a letter responding to the
proposals on his and the Prime Minister's behalf, said he was 'particularly
impressed by the imaginative basis on which the scheme is founded'; that is,
that the practical supervised representation in cases should form part of the
system of formal legal education.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, QC, the Attorney General, has also said he is 'greatly
impressed' and will commend the scheme in the 'appropriate quarters'.

The chambers will start with a full-time clerk, a senior barrister as head of
chambers and volunteer 'door tenants' from the profession who will devote some
time to helping students with their cases.

The solicitors' firm will be supervised by a senior lawyer and started by
academics on the teaching course who will build up a practice and then take on
full-time staff and assistants.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited


                              234 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 12, 1998, Saturday

BATTLE OVER PLAN FOR NEW SUPER-HOSPITAL

BYLINE: By Jon Hunt

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 520 words


Birmingham Health Authority is facing a legal challenge over its support for a
new super-hospital for the city.

A watchdog body, the South Birmingham Community Health Council, says it may seek
a judicial review of the proposals on the grounds that the public has not been
consulted properly.

The CHC, which has long been at loggerheads with the health authority, is
accusing it of having made up its mind about the hospital without allowing the
public to consider alternative options.

But last night the health authority warned that legal action could take
thousands of pounds from patient services and delay vital decisions.

Spokeswoman Mrs Christine Ransome-Wallis said: "It involves considerable time
and cost to go to court. It will cause even more delays in improving health
facilities in Birmingham while other places, like Manchester, get on with it.
They already havepoun ds 432million for new hospitals."

In its latest consultation document, A Framework for Health Investment, the
health authority gives the green light to the new hospital which would replace
the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Selly Oak Hospital. The final decision on a
plan has to be made by the hospital management, the University Hospital
Birmingham NHS Trust.

First estimates have put the cost of the new hospital at pounds 200million
although efforts are being made to cut the cost.

The health authority also proposes radical changes in the organisation of health
treatment with the creation of ambulatory care centres in hospitals offering
bedless, high-speed treatment and diagnosis. And it believes it can shift pounds
50million from hospitals to GP and community services.

The CHC opposes the plan and claims to have public support for its stance.

If it goes ahead with a legal challenge, it will be the second CHC in the region
to seek recourse to the courts. Kidderminster CHC is putting the finishing
touches to a legal challenge to Worcestershire Health Authority's decision to
down-grade its local hospital.

Last night Mrs Ursula Pearce, chairman of South Birmingham CHC, admitted it had
no finance to support the pounds 30,000 cost of a legal challenge.

She said: "Kidderminster has a big fighting fund behind them. The public there
are much more aware of what is going on.

"It's early days yet to say whether there will be a public fund got up in south
Birmingham. We need to know whether we have a strong case or not."

The CHC had originally opposed the use of the Private Finance Initiative to
build the new hospital. But Mrs Pearce said it now believed the new building
would be too expensive even if it was built with public cash.

The CHC has written to Health Secretary Mr Frank Dobson and the NHS West
Midlands office calling for them to halt the health authority's consultation.

But health minister Mr Paul Boateng has told Mrs Pearce that it is "far too
early" to discuss a judicial review. And Mr Keith Smith, director of corporate
affairs at the NHS Executive West Midlands, told the CHC that the health
authority had undertaken " extensive informal consultation".

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              235 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                             March 20, 2006 Monday
                                NATIONAL EDITION

Legal Issues Cloud Shift In Nation's Hospital Market

BYLINE: GLORIA LAU

SECTION: HEALTH & MEDICINE; Q & A; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 826 words


A battle between doctor-owned specialty hospitals and traditional general
hospitals continues to pick up steam.

A provision in the 2003 Medicare law placed a moratorium on the construction of
new specialty hospitals until June 2005.

The plan was to give regulators a chance to see if these hospitals have an
unfair advantage over general hospitals, or if they otherwise hurt the existing
health care system.

The moratorium was extended through December. Since then, the effect on
specialty hospitals is unchanged. For now, Medicare's financing arm is declining
to review new applications for reimbursement of specialty hospitals.

The American Hospital Association and other lobbying groups are pushing for a
permanent moratorium. The AHA accuses specialty hospitals of taking high-profit
business from general hospitals, leaving them with a heavier percentage of poor
or uninsured patients.

Specialty hospitals do have their benefits, however. In 1999, specialty hospital
operator MedCath of Charlotte, N.C., hired consulting firm The Lewin Group to
study its patient outcomes.

The study's latest yearly results, based on 2003 Medicare data, show that
MedCath patients have an 18% lower mortality rate than those at peer community
hospitals. This lower rate comes despite the fact that Medcath tends to handle
more complex cases which take more money and effort to treat. MedCath's average
heart patient stays just 3.69 days vs. 4.79 days at peer community hospitals,
the study says.

Thomas Jeffry Jr., a partner at the Los Angeles office of Davis Wright Tremaine
LLP, recently spoke to IBD about the legal issues facing specialty hospitals.

IBD: What drives doctors to invest in specialty hospitals?

Jeffry: Many physicians have reached the conclusion that they're not going to
increase their income just practicing medicine. So more of them are providing
forms of ancillary health care -- in addition to running their medical practices
-- to enhance their incomes.

The eye surgeons who started operating Lasik surgery centers years ago . . . I
almost consider them early trendsetters.

These new emerging joint ventures are not necessarily (led by) the huge national
companies, but are made up of orthopedists or cardiologists putting imaging
centers next to their office.

These are the types of things that you used to refer patients to hospitals for.
Now doctors are handling these procedures themselves.

Specialty hospitals are usually set up to handle patients from one specialty.
Heart hospitals, orthopedic hospitals and OB-GYN hospitals are some of the most
common.

These specialty hospitals are a big threat to (general) and not-for-profit
hospitals. Some general hospitals have entered into joint ventures with
physicians (and their facilities). If you can't beat them, join them. Better to
share 50% of the revenue than to get none at all.

IBD: What are the main legal issues?

Jeffry: The Stark law, or anti-kickback regulations, limit a physician's ability
to refer patients to facilities they have ownership in.

The legal challenge is to structure these arrangements so they fall within the
exceptions. One exception is if the doctors who refer patients own 40% or less
of a facility. Then they just have to be paid based on percent of ownership.

Physicians can't be reimbursed based on the volume of referrals. You can't tell
the doctor that for every patient you refer for surgery, we'll pay you an extra
$100.

The law doesn't want physicians' financial interests tainting their medical
judgment. One specialty hospital group is MedCath. They put together a lot of
these arrangements. Typically they own 60%. Cardiologists own 40%.

IBD: Would you quantify the impact on public and private hospitals?

Jeffry: From the (general) hospital's perspective, the concern is real unless
the community is seeing significant (population) growth.

The cardiologist could pull all the (high-payment) services out of your
hospital. You have a real hole on the revenue side that you won't be able to
make up anyplace else.

General hospitals worry about losing the high-revenue business, including open
heart surgeries and orthopedic surgeries. These concerns are especially real
when we're talking about the more profitable privately insured patients. But
even Medicare reimburses well enough for profit margins with some of these
procedures.

General hospitals look to that revenue to offset losses they typically take in
the emergency room and internal medicine areas. Usually general hospitals rely
on profits from open heart surgeries, orthopedic procedures and other in-
hospital surgeries.

If a specialty hospital takes away the plusses, (old-style) hospitals are left
with the debts. Then what's left to cover? The sickest patients, the emergency
room patients and the uninsured? Though entire hospitals don't always shut down,
they do close the money-losing areas.

Last year in Southern California, we had several emergency rooms shut down. The
average person should be concerned.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Hospitals 'use legal loophole to block inquiries into blunders'

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 489 words


HOSPITALS are routinely using the threat of legal action as an excuse to block
investigations into medical blunders, patient safety campaigners have claimed,
as they announced a possible legal challenge against the Health Secretary.

Lawyers for the charity Action against Medical Accidents (AvMA) have issued the
threat to Jeremy Hunt over NHS guidance which says hospitals can refuse to
investigate complaints if a patient or relative is considering future legal
action.

The rules were supposed to change in 2009 to prevent them being used as an
"excuse" to deny victims of poor care a thorough investigation.

But campaigners say that confusing guidance, which their lawyers suggest is
unlawful, allows hospitals to close down complaints routinely if there is any
hint that someone may sue for negligence. They have issued a legal letter
warning of their intention to seek a judicial review if the advice is not
changed.

Peter Walsh, the AvMA chief executive, said that efforts to persuade ministers
to tackle the issue had fallen on deaf ears.

He said: "It is outrageous that after all we have heard about the need for more
openness and honesty in the NHS that the Department of Health continues to leave
the door open for NHS bodies to use potential claims for clinical negligence as
an excuse not to provide a truthful investigation and response to a complaint."

Following the scandal at Mid Staffordshire Foundation Trust, where up to 1,200
patients died amid failings in care, ministers have promised a "duty of candour"
for the NHS, legally obliging hospitals to admit medical blunders.

But the charity said such pledges were "meaningless" if hospitals could block
questions from relatives.

It has uncovered a number of cases in which hospital trusts and the NHS
Ombudsman have refused to examine complaints because patients might take legal
action.

Patients are being treated in corridors and having to wait four days to be
assessed by a consultant because of "chaotic" care at Tameside General Hospital
in Manchester, reports suggest.

Two independent expert reviews, seen by The Guardian, criticised the standard of
care and said there was "significant" overcrowding as well as delays in
ambulance handovers because the A&E unit was full. A hospital spokesman said an
action plan to address the issues had been approved by Monitor, the regulator.

New cover-up 'Systemic issues' reference deleted

Evidence of a further cover-up at the NHS watchdog has been uncovered in emails
which show senior figures knew of "systemic" failings at a hospital maternity
unit.

Regional officials at the Care Quality Commission, discussing a response to
media queries about Morecambe Bay NHS trust in January 2010, agreed to delete a
reference to "systemic issues" at the unit, where 14 babies were later found to
have died. The CQC said it had published an independent report into the
regulation of Morecambe Bay and did not wish to comment further.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                 July 29, 2001

20 families sue over children's body parts

BYLINE: Exclusive By Sarah-kate Templeton

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 224 words


At least 20 legal claims have been initiated against Scottish hospitals over the
removal of children's organs without consent. Many NHS trusts have already
received notification from lawyers that claims are proceeding against them.

Just six months after it was revealed that 6000 organs and tissue samples were
retained without consent in Scottish hospitals, trusts are preparing to be sued
for damages.

Yorkhill Hospital in Glasgow has nine legal cases pending while Lothian
University Hospital in Edinburgh, which runs the city's Sick Children's
Hospital, has been notified of six claims.

North Glasgow University Hospitals NHS Trust and Tayside University Hospitals
NHS Trust each have two legal cases in progress against them in relation to
organ retention.  Last night one of the solicitors acting for the bereaved
families insisted, however, that parents are more interested in securing an
apology than financial recompense.

Lanarkshire solicitor Angela McCredie said: "The motive is not financial. It is
more a case of the parents being really upset by the way they have been treated
by the hospital. They almost want to make the hospital admit that they were
wrong.

"It is the only way you can do it. If you want to make someone pay for what they
have done you have got to take out a legal action for damages."

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              238 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                  August 10, 1997, Sunday, Correction Appended
                                  ALL EDITIONS

King & Spalding big player in hospital legal work;
Firm often serves as bond counsel

BYLINE: Peter Mantius; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 05E

LENGTH: 665 words


Representing Georgia hospital authorities is big business for King & Spalding.

Nineteen authorities across the state paid legal fees to the prestigious Atlanta
law firm in 1995 and 1996, a Floyd County grand jury reported last year. The
report said the firm billed the Floyd authority $ 565,499.

It was the law firm's business dealings with the Floyd hospital authority that
led to the pending ethics complaint against former Attorney General Mike Bowers.
Prompted by concerns about Bowers' legal positions, the grand jury checked his
campaign disclosures and found dozens of contributions from the firm. A Rome,
Ga., bookstore owner then challenged the accuracy of the disclosures.

King & Spalding also dominates the state market for providing legal advice on
hospital revenue bonds. According to The Bond Buyer, a trade publication that
reports on the bond industry, the firm has served as bond counsel for 57 Georgia
hospital bond issues with a face amount of $ 1.46 billion over the past decade.
That's more in number of issues and face amount than its three closest
competitors combined.

As bond counsel, King & Spalding tells investors that the interest due them on
hospital bonds is tax-free because the issuer is considered a nonprofit charity
by the IRS. However, the IRS can revoke the tax advantage if it finds a bond
issuer has broken agency rules for operating as a nonprofit.

Losing that status would put the bonds into technical default, said Wade Monk,
the Floyd authority's local attorney. "The interest payable would no longer be
tax free to bondholders," Monk said. "It would be just a mess. It would mean
either calling the bonds or making good on bondholder losses."

Floyd's hospital authority was running just such a risk, according to several
grand juries that probed possible improper deals at the authority.

"We as grand jurors and citizens of Floyd County do not wish to see penalties
assessed on our hospital or to see health care suffer as a result of the loss of
our hospital's tax exemption," the May 1996 term grand jury wrote.

That grand jury found that questionable physician recruitment and deals with a
for-profit medical supply company jeopardized the tax status of $ 60 million in
authority bonds, on which King & Spalding served as bond counsel.

Although IRS guidelines prohibit nonprofit entities from giving special pay,
loan and rent deals, the Floyd authority awarded one physician a $ 350,000
"goodwill" signing bonus and gave another physicians group a $ 400,000 discount
on rent, the grand jury said. And stock records show the authority bought a
medical supply company, Bio-Tech Inc., in 1990, five years after the Georgia
Supreme Court ruled a hospital authority may not own or operate a for-profit
hospital equipment business.

Four competitors of Bio-Tech told the grand jury their referrals from Floyd
County Medical Center, the authority's hospital, dried up after the authority
bought Bio-Tech.

After the IRS raised questions, the authority sold Bio-Tech in 1993 to a newly
chartered company. But the spinoff wasn't complete. The CEO of the Floyd Medical
Center, Bill Waters, headed the acquiring company, while Monk served as legal
counsel to both the buyer and seller.

Although the grand jury viewed Bio-Tech as a threat to the authority's special
tax status, Monk said the authority followed IRS recommendations on how to carry
out the deal.

Monk said he felt the grand jury's concerns about possible loss of its tax
status were overblown. "The possibility is so remote it's hardly worth talking
about, particularly because we went to the IRS," he said.

In 1995, the Floyd district attorney asked Bowers to probe Bio-Tech's complex
history. But Larry Thompson of King & Spalding wrote Bowers that heeding the
request "would only waste the already scarce time and resources on which your
office is forced to rely." Bowers said he took appropriate action. The grand
jury said he didn't go far enough.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 1997

CORRECTION: ARTICLES SUNDAY ON A STATE ETHICS COMMISSION HEARING INVOLVING MIKE
BOWERS SHOULD HAVE SAID THAT A JULY PUBLIC APPEARANCE BY BOWERS IN FLOYD COUNTY
WAS PART OF THE COUNTY REPUBLICAN PARTY'S REGULAR MONTHLY MEETING AND WAS NOT A
FUND-RAISER HOSTED BY COUNTY GOP CHAIRMAN DAVID F. GULDENSCHUH. THE ARTICLES
SHOULD ALSO HAVE SAID THAT A RADIO STATION OPERATED BY ONE MEMBER OF THE FLOYD
COUNTY HOSPITAL AUTHORITY SAW ITS MARKET SHARE - NOT ITS ADVERTISING REVENUE -
INCREASE AFTER THE MEMBER JOINED THE AUTHORITY AND THAT THE MOST RECENT ETHICS
COMMISSION HEARING OCCURRED IN JUNE. ALSO, THE AWARDING OF A KING & SPALDING
FELLOWSHIP TO BOWERS' SON AT EMORY UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL WAS DETERMINED BY THE
UNIVERSITY.

GRAPHIC:  Chart: THE BOND BUSINESS
 Between 1987-1996, King & Spalding served as bond counsel for 57 Georgia
 hospital revenue bond issues, 40 more than any other law firm.
 / Bond / Face
 Law firm / Issues / amount*
 King & Spalding / 57 / $ 1,458
 Sutherland Asbill / 17 / $ 640
 Long Aldridge / 3 / $ 403
 Thomas Kennedy / 1 / $ 336
 Oliver Maner / 13 / $ 286
 Arrington Biggins / 3 / $ 265
 Hunter MacLean / 5 / $ 247
 Powell Goldstein / 4 / $ 231
 Arrington Hollowell / 2 / $ 139
 Howell & Goins / 1 / $ 71
 Alston & Bird / 7 / $ 65
 * in millions
 Note: Fees earned by bond counsels vary widely depending on the complexity
 of each deal.
 Source: The Bond Buyer.

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


                              239 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 9, 1986 Saturday

In a no-man's land of life, death and the law

BYLINE: MARGOT GIBB-CLARK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 597 words


Until very recently, fear of lawsuits prevented them from giving a
 direct order not to restore a patient's heartbeat or breathing.

Instead, notes were pencilled on charts and erased. Nurses were told
 orally not to revive certain patients. Colored stickers or red dots
 appeared in files of patients who were not to be resuscitated. A chart
 might note ''in case of cardiac arrest notify attending physician" - who
 very well could be off duty.

In hospital jargon this is called ''slow code," since a call for
 resuscitation is usually announced over a hospital intercom system as
 ''Code 25" or "Code 99."

''Every nurse has been in that position," says Bev McParland, a manager
 of nursing practice at Toronto General Hospital. Slow code implied the
 doctor was saying ''take your time to call me." Today, nurses are more
 likely to push for a formal order.

In the past, a hospital's legal advisers and insurance companies were
 against issuing DNR orders that would let a patient die.

Theoretically, a Canadian doctor writing such an order could be charged
 with homicide. Section 205 of the Criminal Code says ''a person commits
 homicide when, directly or indirectly, he causes the death of a human
 being." And the code suggests medical treatment is a legal duty.

''Regrettably, the legal authorities and their clients have apparently
 totally ignored the practices to which physicians then had to resort to
 provide proper medical care to their patients," wrote Dr. Adam Linton,
 chief of medicine at Victoria Hospital in London and medical professor at
 the University of Western Ontario.

Still, there appear to have been no lawsuits on this issue in Canada.
 And the situation has improved since 1984, says Dr. Linton, because of new
 guidelines.

The Canadian Medical Association, the Hospital Association and Nurses
 Association came out with joint guidelines that year, suggesting
 appropriate procedure for DNR orders and for death with dignity. Since
 then, many hospitals have developed their own procedures.

Yet some doctors are still uncomfortable about following such guidance
 and have sought their own legal advice. The legal situation has not been
 formally cleared up. The Ontario Hospital Association's legal advisor says
 that in the case of unconscious patients, ''from the view of the law, it
 would be inadvisable for a physician to discontinue life support measures
 on the instructions of the family or any person whatsoever except the
 patient."

Canada's Law Reform Commission has recommended modifying the law so
 that doctors cannot be held criminally liable for care that will reduce
 suffering but not cure a patient. However, this 1984 recommendation has
 not been acted upon and a spokesman for Justice Minister Ray Hnatyshyn
 says there are no plans to do so.

The legal issue is not a major worry, say Dr. Geoffrey Barker of the
 Toronto Hospital for Sick Children and Dr. Neil Lazar of Toronto General,
 both of whom run intensive care units where DNR orders come up regularly.
 ''I don't believe anything hinders us at the moment, though we would feel
 comfortable with more apparent support from our legal colleagues," says
 Dr. Barker.

However, many doctors have faced threats of lawsuits from relatives of
 patients.

"Fear (of lawsuits) is a terrible way to make a decision," says Dr.
 Michael Gordon, of Baycrest and Mount Sinai hospitals. Because of this
 fear, he has sometimes seen elderly terminal patients transferred by
 ambulance from nursing homes to hospitals as they were dying, instead of
 being left in more familiar surroundings. ''Should people die in transit
 because someone is afraid?"

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1986 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                                August 31, 2007
                              Business Day Edition

Hospitals get guide to treating minors

BYLINE: Chantelle Benjamin

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612  words


Hospitals get guide to treating minors

Netcare says ambiguities in the new Children's Act expose their hospitals and
doctors to legal action

Chief Reporter

THE Hospital Association of SA has drawn up guidelines to help concerned
hospital groups with the legal minefield surrounding the Children's Act, which
allows 12-year-old children to receive medical care without parental consent.

Hospital group Netcare said this week it had created brochures using Hasa's
guidelines to assist staff at its hospitals with tricky medical decisions,
because it felt ambiguities in some of the regulations laid hospitals and
doctors open to legal action.

Sections of the controversial act were passed into law on July 1, including
provisions which make it possible for children to have abortions and undergo HIV
testing without requiring permission from their parents.

The act included provisions to reduce the age of maturity from 21 to 18.
However, the full act will not come into effect until the Children's Amendment
Bill is passed by Parliament and regulations have been finalised, early next
year.

Kurt Worrall-Clare, CEO of the Hospital Association, said yesterday that while
the principles of the Children's Act were sound, in that it attempted to address
realities such as sexual and physical abuse, and neglect by parents, there were
insufficient guidelines in some rather sensitive areas.

In terms of the act, a doctor can give medical care to a 12-year-old, provided
he believes that the child has the maturity to understand the procedure being
undertaken.

"Not enough direction is given by the act as to how to make this assessment, or
how the doctor should record his observation in medical records," said
Worrall-Clare.

"One doctor may not consider a child mature enough and refuse a procedure only
for another doctor to find differently. In that case, can the first doctor be
accused of diminishing the right of the patient to care?"

Ironically, while a minor can give consent to medical treatment, a child does
not legally have the right to contract with a medical practitioner for payment.

Worrall-Clare said clinics were seeing that more unaccompanied children coming
in for medical care were seeking abortions and help with drug problems and
mental health issues.

"The aim of the act is not to take away parental rights but to empower children
to make certain decisions," he said. "We are seeing a significant number of
minors coming in who want treatment for drug addiction to illegal and
over-the-counter drugs, and do not want their parents to know, and who might not
otherwise get care.

"We also see children with sexual orientation problems who feel their parents
cannot help, or are in fact making the situation worse," he said.

Worrall-Clare said doctors were being advised to read the Children's Act with
other legislation, such as the National Health Act of 2003, the Medical Scheme
Act of 1998, the Mental Health Act of 2002, the constitution and the United
Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, in some cases, these
contradicted each other.

The Mental Health Act and the National Health Act have different requirements on
who can provide consent for a medical procedure should a child not be considered
capable of it.

The Children's Act also has contradictions within it which creates a minefield
for health workers. The act allows children of 12 to receive medical care but
not surgical intervention, which includes the taking of blood, without
assistance of a parent. Yet it allows for the taking of blood for an HIV test
without parental permission.

The Children's Act allows children to have abortions or to undergo HIV testing
without parental consent.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 12, 1984, Thursday, Final Edition

Hospitals Assail Bond Legal Fees;
$420,000 Cost Of Industrial Issue Called Too High

BYLINE: By Eric Pianin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C1

LENGTH: 789 words


The D.C. Hospital Association, which is seeking assistance from the District
government to issue $40 million worth of industrial bonds to buy new hospital
equipment, has complained that the city's bond counsels are charging
"exorbitant" rates to do the legal work.

The two firms assigned by the city to the proposed bond issue--Melrod, Redman &
Gartlan and Reynolds, Mundy & Gibson--would be entitled to fees totaling
$420,000 if the bond issue goes through.

"We are confident the city will agree the bond counsel fee should be adjusted,"
Stephen H. Lipson, executive director of the hospital association, said
yesterday.

Deputy mayor for finance Alphonse G. Hill criticized the hospital association
this week for complaining publicly, but conceded that the fee may be too high.

"I think there's room for negotiation," Hill said.

Last year, the city launched a major effort to stimulate business expansion by
inviting private firms and nonprofit groups to apply for millions of dollars in
low-interest revenue-bond financing.

The proposed $40 million bond issue, to finance the purchase of X-ray machines
and other equipment for seven local hospitals, is the largest of 10 industrial
bond proposals currently under active review by the D.C. government.

However, the city recently entered into talks with officials of Georgetown
University about a plan to issue $42 million worth of industrial revenue bonds
to finance expansion of the main campus.

The city has signed contracts with five local law firms, including two with
limited experience in municipal bonds, to serve as the District's bond counsels
in all industrial revenue bond transactions.

Under the agreements, the firms would be guaranteed fees equal to 1 percent of
the face value of the bond issue, as well as other costs.

Bond counsels are responsible for preparing all the legal documents associated
with a bond issue and rendering an opinion--for which they are liable--as to
whether the bonds are exempt from federal and local taxes.

Hill said the city assumed from the start that most of the industrial
revenue-bond issues would be for relatively small amounts, with none exceeding
$10 million. District officials felt that bond counsel fees ranging up to
$100,000 were not out of line with prevailing legal costs, according to Hill.

However, the hospital association's major bond proposal caught the city by
surprise, he said, and resulted in the dispute between hospital officials and
the two law firms assigned to the case.

Several area bond counsels and municipal finance experts reached yesterday said
they believed a $400,000 fee was excessive for handling a $40 million bond
issue.

"I would think you would find that if the thing were done on a competitive basis
that it would be done for substantially less," said one lawyer, who declined to
be identified.

Another bond counsel, who also declined to be identified, said, "It depends on
how much work was involved and the risk assumed in rendering a legal opinion on
tax-exempt status , but $400,000 for bond counseling is very, very high."

Stephen D. Kahn, a partner with Melrod, Redman & Gartlan, agreed yesterday that
the 1 percent fee "was not intended" for large bond issues, such as those being
sought by the hospital association and Georgetown University.

"Those deals require fee adjustments," Kahn said. "It's been left to the bond
counsel and the applicants to work it out."

The hospital association began talks with the city a year ago and formally
applied for the bonding authority last July. The hospitals that would benefit
from the low-interest financing include Washington Hospital Center, Capitol Hill
Hospital, Providence, Children's Hospital, Greater Southeast, Georgetown
University and Sibley Memorial.

According to Lipson, the hospitals are required to pay the firms $20,000 in
preliminary legal fees, in addition to the $400,000 in bond counsel fees called
for under the city's contracts with those firms.

Lipson said the 1 percent fee is "outrageous by every standard" and that he
hopes to negotiate it down to about $100,000.

The city's plans for making frequent forays into the municipal bond market have
been postponed indefinitely by the wrangling on Capitol Hill over changes in the
District's home rule law to make it conform to a 1983 Supreme Court ruling.

Sen. Charles Mathias (R-Md.) has scheduled a hearing for April 25 in hopes of
resolving differences between District officials and the Reagan administration
that have prevented settlement of the dispute.

"At this point, we haven't made any reconciliaton with the Reagan
administration," Hill said. "We're awaiting the hearing proposed by Sen.
Mathias. We're still in a holding pattern."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1984 The Washington Post


                              242 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                     November 7, 2015 Saturday 7:39 PM GMT

Wythenshawe Hospital downgrade protest rally draws more than a thousand
residents;
Medics who launched legal action against NHS decision join march across the town

BYLINE: By Charlotte Cox

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


Hundreds of residents marched with medics and MPs in a show of solidarity
against plans to downgrade Wythenshawe Hospital.

More than a thousand people joined a rally to celebrate the hospital's 100 year
history and pledge their support to its future.

It was organised by 'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a group of senior doctors who
have launched legal action against the NHS over 'catastrophic' plans to move
surgery out of the hospital.

Starting on Firbank Road and led by a band, comedian Ted Robbins spoke
emotionally about how the hospital's cardiac specialists saved his life
following his collapse while performing on stage.

MPs, Mike Kane, Graham Brady and Kate Green also took part and spoke out, as
well as medics and patients.

An organiser said: "It was absolutely brilliant.

"Around half the members were staff from the hospital with the rest members of
the community, local councillors, MPS and unions.

"The idea is to challenge the decision made by Healthier Together to downgrade
Wythenshawe. This was really a celebration of Wythenshawe and all it's done in
its 100 year history."

She said they supported the idea of Healthier Together but added: "The final
process, we feel, was flawed and Wythenshawe should not have been put in a
position where was going to be downgraded.

"In the early days, it was about patient care but somewhere along the line the
goalposts shifted and patient benefit no longer seemed to be the main criteria."

Wythenshawe Hospital

Doctors have launched their legal bid as a result of the Healthier Together
hospital shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the
region.

They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal surgery - but
Wythenshawe was not one of those chosen.

A small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's much larger
medical staffing committee, has lodged court papers against Greater Manchester's
12 clinical commissioning groups.

It's aimed at triggering a judicial review of the decision taken by clinical
commissioners over the summer.

They will find out on Monday if the review will go ahead.

NHS bosses say a judicial review could cost the system £500,000 in legal costs.

Dr Nigel Guest, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and one of those who gave
Stepping Hill specialist status over Wythenshawe, said commissioners were
'extremely disappointed' with the legal action, which he claimed was not backed
by the hospital's board.

He also accused the doctors of scaremongering by writing to GPs earlier this
month claiming the hospital's A&E could close.

Lord Peter Smith, who leads on health devolution for the combined authority,
said the move could 'halt' the recruitment of 13 new A&E doctors and 22
surgeons, adding that the entire shake-up had been about improving all
hospitals.

Healthier together

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 4, 2017 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

More than 100 doctors face audit over their private hospital work

BYLINE: Eilish O'Regan; Kevin Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 584 words


MORE than 100 hospital consultants employed by St Vincent's Hospital, who are
also working in the adjacent private hospital, are expected to be part of a
private practice audit.

The HSE is sending in independent auditors from Deloitte to investigate if these
doctors are breaching contracts by also working in the private hospital.

They make up around half the consultants who are working in the private hospital
. The audit is to start shortly as efforts also get underway to secure ownership
of the new national maternity hospital for the HSE, from the Sisters of Charity,
when it will be built on the St Vincent's campus.

It was learned yesterday that Department of Health and HSE officials are to meet
this week with the boards of St Vincent's Healthcare Group and the National
Maternity Hospital in Holles Street.

The officials are to discuss various options to secure ownership, including
leasing the hospital site.

Health Minister Simon Harris is to meet with the boards face to face next week
and has set the end of the month as a deadline to come up with a new ownership
proposal.

The audit comes despite a warning by the HSE that it would impose financial
penalties on St Vincent's Hospital unless the issue of consultants working in
the private hospital was sorted out.

The consultants earn a HSE-funded salary of around (EURO)168,000 for treating
public patients and then top up their income with private practice.

If their services must be withdrawn from the private hospital it would have
major implications for the care it can give.

Meanwhile, Social Protection Minister Leo Varadkar, who intervened in the row
over control of the maternity hospital between St Vincent's and Holles Street,
said yesterday he was struck by the number of people who have contacted him
through his constituency office who have a concern about a religious order
owning a new public hospital.

"I think the most important thing is that the hospital is built. St Vincent's is
the only place that it can be collocated to.

"That's what's best for women and will result in much better outcomes for
infants.

"The second most important thing is that the hospital should have full clinical
independence and that all procedures that are legal in the State are legal
there. We have an assurance that is the case.

"But I have been struck by the amount of people who have contacted me through my
constituency office who have a concern about a religious order owning a new
public hospital," he said.

"I don't think we can ignore that as a government.

"I'd prefer not to speculate on the timeframe for divestment but I do think that
the Government has heard loud and clear the message from the public that they no
longer believe in the 21st century that religious orders should own hospitals."

Meanwhile, the order of Sisters of Charity is set to clear the (EURO)5m that it
is due to pay to the redress board for victims of institutional abuse, Education
Minister Richard Bruton has confirmed.

This will be done by not claiming around (EURO)3m due in legal costs.

The congregation in question offered a cash contribution of (EURO)5m, of which
(EURO)2m has been paid.

"In 2012 the congregation advised that it had decided to waive its claim for
legal costs from the Commission to Inquire into Child Abuse and to offset this
claim against the remaining cash contribution of (EURO)3m," he said in response
to Fianna Fáil health spokesman, Billy Kelleher.

"The then-government agreed to reckon this set-off as a contribution towards the
redress response."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Simon Harris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 28, 2014 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Law, health unite to help victims

BYLINE: Bec Zajac - Bec Zajac writes for The Citizen; thecitizen.org.au.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 585 words


Lawyers working within the Royal Women's Hospital are giving abused women
discreet legal advice in an initiative that could be extended to other health
centres.

The move has put doctors and the legal fraternity in partnership in the latest
effort to counter Victoria's high incidence of family violence. It is giving
women, who might otherwise be too fearful to come forward, access to free advice
under the cloak of routine medical appointments.

Lawyer Linda Gyorki, who manages the project, said it was often difficult for
women suffering from abuse to " "seek legal assistance and work out what their
entitlements are". Often, women found themselves only able to leave the house
alone for antenatal appointments. The project aims to inform the women of their
legal rights, according to Dr Fleur Llewelyn, who heads the clinical side of the
operation.

"The power of having this kind of alliance is that women who are not usually
able to see a lawyer are able to see them when they are 'legitimately' on site
for a medical appointment," she said.

The project, Acting on the Warning Signs, is a joint initiative of the hospital
and Inner Melbourne Community Legal. It is the first of its kind in a major
metropolitan hospital.

Launched two years ago, the preliminary findings of an expert panel overseeing
the project suggest it is making a difference. The service has so far provided
advice to more than 100 women.

Underpinning the strategy is research that shows that putting women in contact
with lawyers can help lead to a decline in violence. Also, abused women are more
likely to disclose violence to health professionals than they are to lawyers.

A central aspect of the project was the opening of a free legal clinic within
the social work wing of the Royal Women's Hospital. The clinic is open three
times a week, enabling women to make contact of their own accord or via
referrals from anyone working at the hospital.

Ms Gyorki said the legal service was general in nature, but she had found
herself talking to women mostly about family law matters. Some had sought advice
about child support payments. Others needed help filling out applications for
intervention orders, while some from other countries wanted to know how they
could prevent their partners from moving their children overseas.

Another key component of the project is a training program for doctors and
health professionals that helps them to spot the physical and emotional warning
signs of abuse and know how to respond.

Intimate partner violence is the leading preventable cause of death, disability
and illness for Australian women aged 15 to 44. In 2012-13, in Victoria alone,
there were 45 homicides in family settings.

Acting on the Warning Signs was inspired by the US model of medical-legal
partnerships that has evolved during the past two decades and is based on what
is commonly referred to as the social model of health.

It recognises that some illness is caused or exacerbated not by medical factors
but by legal, social or economic ones and can only be solved when doctors,
lawyers and social workers collaborate.

ACCESSING JUSTICE

" Interviews with survivors of partner abuse have shown that health
professionals are the major group to which women want to disclose violence.

" Recent US studies found that the provision of legal services was one of three
key factors contributing to a decline in violence against women.

" The annual cost of domestic violence in Australia in 2002-03 was estimated by
Access Economics to be $8.1 billion.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 August 4, 2014

Dad slaps legal notices to MYH suptd, others

LENGTH: 163  words


Indore:  Father of a woman, who died of medical negligence in MY Hospital,
slapped a legal notice to the Superintendent of MY Hospital and directors of New
Life Line Hospital and Arpan Hospital, on Sunday. He also demanded a
compensation of Rs 14 lakh from them in seven days. He also warned them to sue
if they failed to give the compensation.

As per information, Lallu Baurasi, a resident of Govind Nagar Kharcha, sent a
legal notice through his lawyer Laldas Prajapati.

In the notice, Baurasi stated that his pregnant daughter, Neelu, was admitted in
New Life Line Hospital for delivery on June 27. Due to wrong treatment, Neelu
developed ulcer in her stomach after which she was referred to MY Hospital.

Later, the family members took her to Arpan Hospital and again to MY Hospital.

Baurasi claimed that her daughter went into coma after the surgery at MYH and
died on the next day of the surgery. He also mentioned that two doctors of MY
Hospital accepted negligence on their part.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 9, 1985

Women sent to mental hospital seeks leave to sue doctors / Mary Winch plans
legal action against Risley Remand Centre and North Wales Hospital

BYLINE: By SUSAN TIRBUTT

LENGTH: 397 words


A woman who spent a year in a mental hospital is seeking leave in the Appeal
Court to sue three doctors involved and their employers, for negligence.

Miss Mary Winch, aged 65, alleges want of care by doctors at Risley Remand
Centre and North Wales Hospital, Denbigh, and their employers, the Home Office
and Clwyd Health Authority.


She is applying for leave to take legal action because of a clause in the 1959
Mental Health Act protecting doctors from harassment by litigation.

She was committed to hospital for mental treatment for a year after she refused
to hand over legal documents during a five-year property dispute.

Mr John Macdonald, QC, for Miss Winch, said Mr Alun Jones, a psychiatrist at
North Wales Hospital, did not rescind the order under the same act committing
Miss Winch to hospital after she had been cooperating with treatment and was no
longer a danger to other people or herself. Mr Jones did not keep the order
under review and rarely saw her. After a year the order expired and Miss Winch
was released.

Dr Paul Hayward and Dr Paul Bishop, of Risley Remand Centre, should not have
recommended making an order under section 26 of the act without making further
inquiries as to whether Miss Winch's beliefs about solicitors were well founded,
the court heard.

The two doctors found that Miss Winch, who was in the middle of a long legal
action over ownership of a house, was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia. The
illness, they found, expressed itself in litigation and the belief that there
was a ring of solicitors.

Miss Winch was taken to North Wales Hospital, Denhigh, in 1978 under a court
order after spending three months at Risley Remand Centre, where she had been
gaoled for contempt by Judge Blackett-Ord.

Miss Winch was held in contempt for refusing to hand over legal documents to
release the sale of her late mother's house. She had been disputing the sale of
the house since her mother's death in 1972.

Her sister disputed that she should administer the estate and asked the Public
Trustee to take over.

While Miss Winch was in hospital in 1978 the house was sold. The Public
Trustee's court costs were awarded against her, which, with her own legal costs,
took up al: her inheritance.

The case before the Master of the Rolls, Sir John Donaldson, sitting with two
colleagues, continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              247 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday

Hospitals directed not to charge medico-legal fees

BYLINE: Bharat Yagnik

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 154 words


AHMEDABAD: The city police commissioner has issued a notification on the basis
of a state-wide notice by the state DGP that the medico-legal fee charged by
government and private hospitals will be illegal henceforth.

It came to notice of the senior officials recently that a hospital had charged
Rs 3,000 from a patient in Naroda towards a medico-legal case. When questioned,
the hospital trust officials said that the money goes to the doctors as they
have to go to the courts in connection with the case - leaving their work at the
hospital behind and they are not paid anything additional.

"As per the notification, all private hospitals are banned from taking such fees
as it is illegal. The state medical council will be involved in the decision and
such activities would be brought to the notice of the Medical Council of India
for punitive action," said a senior city police official.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital seeks $22.5M for failed merger

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 522  words

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH


NEW SMYRNA BEACH -- Seeking to repair financial damage a failed merger caused
tax-supported Bert Fish Medical Center, the hospital district's board voted
Thursday to demand $22.5 million from the firm of the lawyer who gave it faulty
advice.

The board unanimously approved starting with that amount in a demand letter that
will be delivered to a lawyer representing the Orlando firm Lowndes, Drosdick,
Doster, Kantor & Reed.

One of that firm's partners, Jim Heekin, advised the hospital board it could
meet outside public view in 21 meetings over 16 months that resulted in
Adventist Health System merging with the New Smyrna Beach hospital in 2010.

That merger, however, became the focus of what some have called the largest
violation of the state's Sunshine Law to be challenged in court. After a
five-day hearing, Circuit Judge Richard Graham on Feb. 24 ordered the merger
undone.

The legal fight and ensuing separation resulted in a pile-up of legal and
administrative costs to the hospital and the Southeast Volusia Hospital District
that are still being tallied.

The board has hired Lou Mrachek, a Palm Beach attorney who specializes in legal
malpractice, to try to recover some of those expenses. Mrachek urged the board
to authorize him to compose a demand letter that will be the starting point for
mediation with the Orlando firm.

We want to give a number that won't scare them off and have them give us the
cold shoulder, and I don't think that will," Mrachek said of the $22.5 million.

Some of Bert Fish Medical Center's costs are underwritten by taxpayers from
Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of Port Orange. The hospital
district's tax rate of $3.25 per $1,000 of taxable value, the highest of any
such district in the state, was expected to bring in $17.2 million this fiscal
year.

The legal costs of the failed merger have threatened to squeeze the amount
budgeted to support indigent care at the hospital, district officials have said.

Mrachek said he hired consultants to estimate the value of the Adventist deal
that had been signed.

Heekin's own testimony valued the merger's value to the taxing district at $40
million, when the hospital was worth $18 million, Mrachek told the board.

He said it was a great deal," Mrachek said.

Because the hospital was returned to public ownership, that means the district
lost $22 million in income, Mrachek said. Add to that the resulting legal and
administrative fees, estimated to be at $3.4 million, and damages come to $25.4
million.

A 10 percent discount to the damages is traditionally applied when the case
doesn't go to court, Mrachek explained. And that would bring the amount that
should be demanded to $22.4 million, he said.

I love this case. I'm excited about the case," Mrachek told the board after
being asked if it would be a difficult case to press.

Heekin could not be reached for comment Thursday night.

Since the merger debacle, only two of the seven board members who were serving
at the time of the merger remain. Gov. Rick Scott dismissed the three officers
of the board who had re-applied for their positions, and five new members have
been appointed.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              249 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           November 30, 2013 Saturday
                                   2 Edition

19 more hospitals facing checks as part of Savile NHS abuse investigation

BYLINE: james hamilton

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 199 words


A further 19 hospitals are to have their links with Jimmy Savile investigated.

In a written ministerial statement, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said he
expected reports to be delivered by next June. The hospitals will be
investigated by their relevant health trusts but each investigation will be
properly monitored.

They are in addition to an initial 13 inquiries into hospitals which are
believed to have been visited by the disgraced television presenter. Savile is
thought to have used his position to abuse vulnerable patients, many of them
children.

After details first emerged about cases of alleged abuse by Savile in hospitals,
three major investigations were launched at Leeds General Infirmary, Stoke
Mandeville Hospital and Broadmoor Hospital.

Further investigations were then announced at ten hospitals across the country.

Liz Dux, a lawyer specialising in abuse at legal firm Slater & Gordon which is
representing 72 victims, said there were concerns that inquiries into other
hospitals had only just started.

She said all of the victims represented by her firm had given detailed
statements to Operation Yewtree - the police investigation into sexual abuse
sparked by the Savile scandal.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Case for a Cure

BYLINE: By TINA ROSENBERG.

Tina Rosenberg is the author of ''Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform
the World.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1845 words


By early summer 2010, the temperature had already reached 100 degrees in
Cincinnati. At Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, doctors were
urging the families of children with asthma to use air-conditioning. One mother
handed a piece of paper to her doctor: The child's room did have a window unit,
and she was using it. But then the landlord responded -- he apparently didn't
want to pay the electric bills. Use that air-conditioner, the letter said, and
you will be evicted.

A concerned doctor might have tried to call the landlord to fight the notice.
Or, she might have handed the letter over to a social worker. But Cincinnati
Children's had something better -- it had lawyers. In 2008, the hospital and the
Legal Aid Society of Greater Cincinnati set up a medical-legal partnership, the
Cincinnati Child Health-Law Partnership or Child HeLP.

A week later, another family came in with the same letter. And the week after
that.

''Our lawyers were getting the same problem referred over and over in a short
period of time,'' said Elaine Fink, who is the co-leader of Child HeLP. ''They
looked at the map ­-- they were all in the same neighborhood. They looked to see
who owned the buildings. In this case we hit bingo ­-- the same owner.''That was
the Brooklyn-based NY Group, which held 18 buildings in Cincinnati and one in
Dayton. Many tenants in those buildings had ended up at Child HeLP -- to get
help with mold, water damage, structural perils, rodents or bug infestations.

Child HeLP wrote to NY Group, including in its letters statements by physicians
about the health impacts of its legal violations. It sued on behalf of one
severely disabled boy with a tracheotomy whose health depended on
air-conditioning. The repairs were done in a few weeks.

But the point was not just to help individual patients -- it was to improve
conditions in the buildings for all tenants. At the same time, NY Group was
walking away from the buildings -- Fannie Mae foreclosed on all 19 by the end of
July. Legal Aid helped tenants to organize and have a voice in the foreclosure
process -- among other things, they wanted to make sure that the buildings
remain subsidized housing.

Ultimately that pressure resulted in widespread repairs, and helped persuade
Fannie Mae to sell the buildings to Community Builders, a Boston-based nonprofit
that develops and operates good low-income housing (which is maintaining the
subsidies). Reconstruction is about to start.

Being poor can make you sick. Where you work, the air you breathe, the state of
your housing, what you eat, your levels of stress and your vulnerability to
crime, injury and discrimination all affect your health. These social
determinants of health lie outside the reach of doctors and nurses.

In the early 1990s, Barry Zuckerman, the chief of pediatrics at Boston City
Hospital (now Boston Medical Center), decided he was tired of seeing kids
cycling back into the hospital again and again -- asthmatic kids who never got
better because of the mold in their houses, infants with breathing problems
because their apartments were unheated. He'd write letters to the landlord, who
ignored them, said Megan Sandel, who was an intern there at the time. Then at a
cocktail party, someone listening to his complaints asked Zuckerman: What does
the law say?

Zuckerman thought it was an important question. In 1993, he established the
Family Advocacy Program with three lawyers to prod landlords, secure government
benefits families were entitled to and fight with Medicaid, insurance companies,
schools and other bureaucracies.

(Zuckerman deserves his own wing in medicine's hall of innovation -- he also
co-founded Reach Out and Read, which supplies books and encourages doctors to
prescribe them and family reading for kids. And he is co-founder of Health
Leads, a program that trains college students to connect patients to food, heat
and other basics of health.)

There were few medical-legal partnerships until about five or 10 years ago, but
now 231 health care institutions have them, according to the National Center for
Medical-Legal Partnership. The largest is New York's LegalHealth, which works in
about 20 New York hospitals and is expanding -- it will soon have clinics in all
11 of the city's public hospitals.

Medical-legal partnerships are growing in part because of increasing attention
to social determinants of health. Talking about inequality means talking about
the vicious cycles that keep people poor; one of the most important is the
intersection of poverty and health. ''And sometimes a new asthma inhaler isn't
going to solve the problem,'' said Martha Bergmark, executive director of Voices
for Civil Justice, and until recently director of the Mississippi Center for
Justice.

The vast majority of low-income Americans have unresolved legal problems: debt,
immigration status, custody issues, child care, benefits, back pay, housing, a
special education plan for a child -- you name it. All of these affect stress
levels, which is in itself a health issue, but many have a more direct
connection to health.

Medicaid in New York State is now, in some cases, paying for supportive housing.
(Medicaid has long bought housing in the form of nursing homes, of course.) This
WNYC radio story describes one formerly homeless woman now in a Medicaid-paid
apartment. ''You could treat her epilepsy until the cows come home, but without
an appropriate place to live she was going to be sick,'' said Bergmark.

Clinics that have medical-legal partnerships approach health differently than
others. When doctors have no options for helping patients with the social
determinants of health, they tend not to ask about them. With a medical-legal
partnership, they do. At Cincinnati Children's, each patient's family is asked:
Do you have housing problems? Problems getting your benefits? Are you depressed?
Are you unsafe in your relationship? Would you like to speak to a lawyer or
social worker about any of these things?

That process can start right away. ''We have attorneys and paralegals on site in
the primary care center five days a week,'' said Fink. ''Many times we get a
legal aid attorney to walk down the hall to talk to family while the child is
waiting to get immunizations.''

A legal letter can often get a response where a doctor's or social worker's
letter does not. The lawyers also save doctors time. ''Everyone works at the top
of their profession instead of the physician figuring out why mom is going to be
evicted tomorrow and what they can do about it,'' said Ellen Lawton,
co-principal investigator at the National Center for Medical-Legal Partnership.

The reverse is also true: adding doctors makes legal work easier. Lawton said
that lawyers' arguments carry more weight when they include a medical opinion.
''The health of the kids changes the advocacy conversation,'' she said. ''It
goes from 'this is the law and you have to comply' to a conversation that's
about community well-being and health. And when you're able to use the clinical
viewpoint rather than a legal framework, you're able to resolve the issue much
more rapidly.''

Most important, a medical-legal partnership goes beyond curing an individual.
Child HeLP's actions in Cincinnati's sick buildings made life better for all the
families there. ''Don't wait for the kids to be sick,'' said Sandel, who is now
the medical director of the national medical-legal partnership center. ''Look
for the pattern and find what's making kids sick in the first place. The power
of the model is moving upstream, going from person to person to population
level'' -- legal action as preventive medicine.

Like other forms of preventive care, medical-legal clinics are a bargain. One
striking example: New York City's LegalHealth wrote formal legal demand letters
to help adult asthma patients get their apartments cleared of rodents, bugs,
mold, water and structural damage. The apartments were fixed. Patients improved,
drastically, and there was a 90 percent drop in emergency room visits and
hospital admissions. This was achieved by a one-shot intervention that cost an
average of $225 per case.

But while society may save money, that's not necessarily true for hospitals --
and it's hospitals that make the decisions. Fee-for-service medicine rewards
hospitals for more admissions and emergency room usage, not less, and doesn't
reimburse hospitals for preventive services such as legal aid. Nor can legal aid
lawyers rely on funding from the federal Legal Services Corporation, which never
recovered from the Reagan administration's cuts.

Increasingly, though, hospitals are establishing and paying for medical-legal
partnerships, despite the lack of reimbursement. (New York City's Health and
Hospitals Corporation is paying for part of the expansion of LegalHealth, with
other major funding from the Robin Hood Foundation, an anti-poverty group.) One
reason is the growing move toward value-based reimbursement instead of
fee-for-service -- for example, Medicare now rewards hospitals for having low
rates of readmission and good scores on safety measures. Nonmedical staff
members such as social workers -- and lawyers -- are becoming a better
investment.

Kerry J. Rodabaugh, a gynecologic oncologist at the University of Nebraska
Medical Center, started a medical-legal partnership at an earlier job at the
Roswell Cancer Center in Buffalo. She studied how often lawyers were able to get
patients into insurance or benefit programs, which allows hospitals to be
reimbursed for their care. She wrote a paper on the partnership's work and the
savings.

At Nebraska, Rodabaugh established a medical-legal partnership in her
department.

''In order to get funding for my program I've had to prove a financial
benefit,'' she said. ''I've been able to document at my current program a 700
percent return on investment since 2009. When I'm talking to administrators they
get very excited.'' Now U.N.M.C. is expanding these clinics to every department
and to its primary care clinics in places with significant poverty.

''So much of child health is the result of poor social and physical living
conditions for kids -- food on the table, shelter, quality education,'' said
Robert S. Kahn, a pediatrician at Cincinnati Children's who is the medical
co-leader of Child HeLP. ''So much of what we do in pediatrics is driven by
these broader well-being issues for the family. We do much better when we
partner with groups that have that as a mission.''

Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. To
receive e-mail alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.

Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book ''The Haunted Land: Facing
Europe's Ghosts After Communism.'' She is a former editorial writer for The
Times and the author, most recently, of ''Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can
Transform the World'' and the World War II spy story e-book ''D for Deception.''

This is an excerpt from Fixes, a series on social change at nytimes.com/
opinionator.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/07/17/when-poverty-makes-you-sick-a-la
wyer-can-be-the-cure/

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    October 21, 1995, Saturday, City Edition

Hospital's foundation goes to court over fees // AVOIDING EVICTION

BYLINE: BARBARA BARRETT

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



Attorneys for the Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation Inc. on Friday filed a
court complaint to head off possible eviction from Helen Ellis Memorial
Hospital.

The action was in response to an Oct. 5 letter from attorney Barbara Pankau
telling the foundation, which operates the hospital, that it had 30 days to  pay
more than $ 12,000 in legal fees or risk default on its lease of the  hospital
property.

The fees were incurred by the Health Facilities Authority, which sublets  the
city-owned property to the foundation. Pankau has said the lease requires  the
foundation to pay the authority's legal bills.

"If we'd waited until the 30 days were up, then they (the authority) could  come
up and try to evict us, and we didn't want to take that chance," said  Lester
Garner, president of the foundation.

"No one's threatened to evict them," Mayor Anita Protos said. "This is
ridiculous."

The complaint also asks the Pinellas County Circuit Court to clear up  disputed
parts of the lease contract, including whether the authority ought to  have
access to secret documents on strategic business plans, the hospital's
managed-care contract and the names of foundation members, said Joe Kiefer,
hospital administrator.

Friday's late-afternoon court filing surprised many.

"I was not expecting it," said Pankau, the attorney hired to advise the  city on
hospital issues after the city and the hospital began feuding. "I  think it
would have been a lot better if they just had paid the bills. Now  we're going
to be involved in a legal procedure that I'm not sure is  necessary."

The foundation had other options if it had questions about the legal bills,  she
said, among them talking with her and with the authority.

"We've about run out of talk," Garner responded.

The foundation argues that the $ 12,000 bill falls outside the scope of its
responsibility, and it is therefore refusing to pay it.

No matter how small the amount, payment would set a bad precedent, Kiefer  said.

"I can see the foundation's point," said City Commissioner Cindy Domino.  "If I
were suing you, and I came to you and told you to pay my lawyer's fees,  you'd
slap my face, right?"

But the lease provides for such legal charges, said John Tarapani, chairman  of
the authority, which is a city-appointed board.

"It clearly outlines in four places of the lease, they are responsible for  our
fees in connection with enforcement and compliance of the lease," he  said.

Tarapani and Garner both said they will accept the court's decision.

In fact, Garner wants to put the money for the legal bills in an escrow  account
to be distributed by the court. "We're trying to show good faith,"  he said.

Pankau said she must now meet with the authority to discuss a response to  the
court filing.

Meanwhile, both city and hospital officials plan to focus on their  campaigns
for the Nov. 14 referendum, in which voters will advise the  commission on
whether to sell the hospital.

The court case should have little effect on the referendum, said City
Commissioner Karen Brayboy.

"It doesn't have anything to do with what we're dealing with," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Mayor Anita Protos; Lester Garner

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


                              252 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Laws may shield hospital from pathology claims

BYLINE: Ruth Pollard Health Reporter

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 365 words


PATIENTS harmed in the Hunter New England pathology bungle may be prevented from
suing the health service by state laws that limit the Government's liability in
negligence cases.

A review of thousands of pathology tests at Tamworth Base Hospital found that
217, some involving diagnoses for cancer, had significant variations that might
have adversely altered treatment.

Of those, 38 were seriously affected and six people might have died as a result
of the bungle, the Government admitted.

Lawyers have criticised the Premier, Morris Iemma, for noting that patients and
their families were "entitled to seek a legal claim against the Government",
saying instead that the new laws shut people out of the legal system.

"Premier Iemma's statement is a hollow gesture to the many people who may have
suffered grievously from state-sponsored negligence," said the president of the
NSW Bar Association, Michael Slattery, QC.

"This state has armour-plated its hospital system very effectively against
genuine claims for medical negligence from its own citizens."

Civil liability laws passed by the former premier Bob Carr in 2002 gave state
authorities such as public hospitals legal immunities, capping damages and
reducing the courts' ability to award large payouts, he said.

The Hunter claims, which relate to tests misdiagnosed by Farid Zaer, a
pathologist, between 1999 and 2001 at Tamworth Base Hospital, fell outside the
three-year statute of limitations.

It was possible to apply to the court to have that time extended, however it
came at a huge cost to individual patients, said Bill Madden, a partner at
Slater & Gordon, a law firm that specialists in medical negligence. The other
option was that the Government could step in, he said.

A spokeswoman for the state Minister for Health, John Hatzistergos, said last
night that NSW Health would not force patients to seek an extension of the
statute of limitation. Instead, claims would apply from when the patient was
informed of the misdiagnosis.

But she said "NSW Health cannot unilaterally exempt itself from legislation -
any special arrangement would be whole of government consideration".

The Government had yet to receive any claims, she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           December 30, 2004 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

HOSPITALS' NEGLECT TRANSLATES BADLY

BYLINE: BY ALBOR RUIZ

SECTION: SUBURBAN; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 598 words


IMAGINE RUSHING to a hospital seeking urgent medical attention for you or your
children and not being able to tell the doctor what hurts, what is wrong with
you or your child. Imagine the frustration and the fear.

Marta Peña can tell you all about it. She is 25, lives in Queens and has a
4-year-old boy and a 2-year-old girl.

"When I was pregnant with my first child, I was feeling really bad and I began
to bleed," she remembered. "I was very scared and went to the hospital, but when
I finally got to see a doctor, he didn't speak any Spanish, and those days I
didn't speak any English. I didn't know what to do. How could I explain to him
what was happening to me? I was desperate."

No interpreter was available, and Peña was forced to ask another patient for
help, she told us in June. She had a healthy baby boy, although many other cases
do not have happy endings.

Peña's situation is not unique. With 2 million Latinos living in the city, it is
the daily reality of thousands of people.

The lack of translation services at the hospitals means that hundreds of doctors
are not able to ask thousands of people what is afflicting them.

Patients with limited knowledge of English have to rely on gestures, the
kindness of other patients or their own children.

"Condition Critical," a report released Dec. 14 by the Puerto Rican Legal
Defense and Education Fund, makes clear that those communication barriers are
endangering the lives of immigrant New Yorkers.

The report documents the almost wholesale exclusion of Latinos from top
policy-making positions in the city's private or voluntary hospitals.

After surveying 13 voluntary hospitals in the five boroughs, especially those
that serve large Latino populations, "Condition Critical" found that 12 of them
have almost no Latinos in leadership positions.

And it concludes that this is one of the reasons for the lack of interpreters
and the discrimination suffered by Latinos in many New York voluntary hospitals.

"This is a condition that makes these institutions less responsive to our
community and disregards anti-discrimination laws and regulations," said Angelo
Falcón, senior policy executive at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund.

"What I found from those who complained to us . . . about health issues was that
the most frequent culprit identified was not the individual physician or even
the HMO - it was the hospitals," César Perales, the fund's president and general
counsel, wrote in the report preface.

This is something taxpayers and communities should hold hospitals accountable
for. Because even if they are called "private," these hospitals rely heavily on
public funds.

Amazingly, the Greater New York Hospital Association, entrusted with overseeing
the hospitals, recently failed to meet the city Health and Hospitals Corp.'s
equal employment opportunity standards.

Anticipating the criticism in the Puerto Rican legal fund report, the
association announced the creation of an advisory panel to study the hospitals'
problems relating to the Latino community. It will be headed by Ida Castro, the
respected former boss of the federal Equal Employment Opportunities Commission
under President Bill Clinton.

To many, the new panel is only a public relations move intended to steal the
thunder from the biting Puerto Rican legal fund report. In any case, as Perales
said, private hospitals "don't need a commission to do this."

The Greater New York Hospital Association can begin 2005 the right way by taking
care of this problem without further delay. Patients should not have to wait any
longer. aruiz@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2004 Daily News, L.P.


                              254 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                    February 12, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Long States: to be a Good Social Management
Innovation of Participants and Promoters

LENGTH: 434  words


Beijing, Feb. 12 -- Longzhou County People's Court to maintain good social order
as an important management responsibilities, to explore innovative ideas,
consciously put themselves into the community of management, social management
innovation efforts to be a good participant and facilitator for the maintenance
of good order of social administration provide better judicial services, and
achieved remarkable results.



Hospital county hospital leaders often led more than a dozen key enterprises in
depth, understand the legal problems encountered in the development of
enterprises in the production and help companies ride out the storm. The new
rural construction hospital residency instructor and first secretary of villages
often irregular in depth guide poll organizations, to assist the mediation of
civil disputes, to ensure that no trivial Tun, events within the village. At the
same time, the hospital has sent vice president of business backbone of primary
and secondary legal jurisdiction to carry out regular activities to build law
school, students take the invitation to appear in court to observe the trial,
moot court, legal seminars, distributing promotional materials, etc., legal
awareness and legal awareness of minors, effectively preventing crimes in
school.

Focus on the prevention and correction of minor criminal population, in
particular the working mechanism of socialization, hospital services is another
innovation of social management features. The hospital was sentenced to
probation for, control, pardon and released from prison staff, good tracking
assistance and education, and coordination of relevant departments to help them
solve their practical difficulties. Especially for minors criminals, adhere to
the "education, persuasion, and rescue" approach, with schools, parents work
closely together to invite people's assessors, greater efforts to do a return
visit after the judgment of addicts, criminals as soon as possible to help the
rehabilitation of minors rehabilitation, social reintegration.

In addition, the hospital is also actively involved in peace building
activities, based on the trial, and public security, procuratorial, judicial
departments work closely together and actively carry out various social security
comprehensive management of special rectification activities to help the county
government to properly handle group disputes, good outside the mediation
proceedings, to the township villages to carry out legal advocacy and legal
advisory services, held annually pronouncement 2-3 times in order to improve
people's concept of the rule of law.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                November 8, 2005

Fight for Frenchay 'doomed to failure'

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 730 words


Health bosses have reacted with dismay to a legal bid to halt the downgrading of
Frenchay hospital. South Gloucestershire Council yesterday voted to seek advice
on mounting a High Court challenge to Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt's refusal
to re-examine a planned shake-up of city hospitals which would see Southmead
Hospital upgraded while Frenchay withers.

Sonia Mills, chief executive of North Bristol NHS Trust which runs both Frenchay
and Southmead hospitals, said the move could delay the work by up to two years -
and add at least £36 million to the costs involved.

And Bristol North West MP Doug Naysmith branded the council's refusal to give up
the fight to save Frenchay as "crazy" as the legal bid was bound to fail.

Taking legal advice is likely to could cost the council up to £2,000. Taking the
case to the High Court is expected to cost £10,000 and if the council were to
lose and be ordered to pay all of the legal costs, it could be landed with a
bill of more than £100,000.

Ms Mills said the judicial review South Gloucestershire Council is seeking would
take up to 10 months.

She said: "Our timetable is deliberately designed to ensure that we are at the
front of the queue of 25 major hospital schemes in other cities throughout
England which are at a similar stage of development. It is very clear that
schemes which are delayed and fail to attract PFI interest have to restart their
process. A six to 10-month judicial review process is likely to lead to a delay
of 12 or even 24 months." Ms Mills said delaying the scheme would drive up costs
by reducing competition among potential contractors as they became committed to
other schemes.

Mr Naysmith added: "As far as I know it has already been said that a judicial
review will not succeed, that the way the decision is made, it's very unlikely
that this will succeed.

"I think it's crazy that the cabinet is spending taxpayers' money on something
that will not succeed. I think it's time some of the local politicians in South
Gloucestershire stopped playing politics with something so important and decided
to have a great new hospital for South Gloucestershire and the whole of the
Bristol area." Pam Ward, Secretary of the Joint Union Committee representing
North Bristol NHS Trust staff, was also worried by the delay South
Gloucestershire Council's legal bid will cause.

She said: "We are concerned that, yet again, the process will stall. Any delay
now in the plans could jeopardise the cost of providing hospital services in the
future. The staff believe that if the plans are stalled now the true losers will
be the residents of Bristol and South Gloucestershire who will have to wait even
longer for a new hospital." At yesterday's meeting, the council's cabinet was
told it should know in about three weeks whether it had a strong enough legal
case to challenge the Bristol Health Services Plan, a £500 million shake-up of
hospital services in the region that also includes plans for new community
facilities in Thornbury, Yate and Kingswood.

The council's three-party ruling cabinet voted by seven votes to two in favour
of seeking legal advice over a judicial review, with Labour opposing the move.

Tory group leader John Calway (Longwell Green) said: "I don't think out
residents would ever believe it if we refused to invest in what might be our
only chance of saving Frenchay.

"It seems there has been a deliberate plan in place from day one to
systematically discredit Frenchay by the NHS, right up to the Secretary of
State." Maggie Tyrrell (Thornbury South), the Lib Dems' executive member for
community care, housing and health, said: "There is overwhelming public support
for acute services at Frenchay Hospital. We owe it to the people of South
Gloucestershire to make their opinion count." Labour group leader Roger
Hutchinson (Filton) made an impassioned plea for the cabinet to accept that
Southmead had been chosen as the site for the new acute hospital. He said: "This
is not a Frenchay versus Southmead argument any more.

"I'm aware some people in South Gloucestershire are disappointed it's not
Frenchay but that was bound to happen." The judicial review's brief would be to
decide whether the Health Secretary had been "irrational or unreasonable" in not
referring the decision to favour Southmead to an independent panel.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


                              256 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                          June 23, 1993, CITY EDITION

Doctor says appeal on dismissal disallowed

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 673 words


A NEUROSURGEON has told the High Court that he was dismissed as a registrar at
Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, in June 1991 and that he was denied an opportunity to
appeal the decision.

Dr Christos Georgopoulos, at present a consultant neurosurgeon in Athens,
Greece, said yesterday that he was seeking reinstatement at Beaumont Hospital
where he was taken on as a registrar in neurosurgery in October 1989.

He was told his employment was for a three-year period, the contract to be
renewed annually, and it was renewed in June 1990 for a further year. During his
registrarship, he became aware of certain incidents and he considered patients'
care was being compromised.

He put his concerns into writing in February 1990. His letter, which was given
to the Irish Medical Council, in turn led to an inquiry into the hospital. Dr
Georgopoulos said that towards the end of 1990 he became aware of complaints
being made against him by consultants in the hospital which resulted in his
dismissal.

Dr Georgopoulos said there was no hearing initially and that he had learned
about his dismissal in the press. After legal proceedings there was a
settlement, and it was agreed that the hospital board would consider the case
afresh. The hearing took place from June 24th to 27th, 1991, with his solicitor
and counsel present, but the legal assessor to the board gave advice to the
board in private.

Dr Georgopoulos is seeking declarations that his purported dismissal on June
27th, 1991, is invalid and in breach of his constitutional rights, and that the
dismissal is in breach of the terms of his contract and/or terms ,of the
settlement of June 1991 with the hospital.

He is also claiming that the hospital board acted outside its powers in
dismissing him and violated the requirements of natural and constitutional
justice. He is seeking damages for wrongful dismissal and breach of
constitutional rights.

The hospital board is denying all claims and also that Dr Georgopoulos was
employed by it between October 10th, 1989, and June 27th, 1991, as alleged. But
if he was employed, which was not admitted, then the employment was for a fixed
duration only, expiring on June 30th, 1991. It admits dismissing Dr Georgopoulos
but states that such dismissal was warranted and efficacious in law.

The defence also claims that Dr Georgopoulos was accorded a full and air caring
and that if the legal assessor withdrew with members of the board and gave legal
advice as asserted, which was denied, then this was a valid use of the legal
assessor's powers.

The court was told by Mr Gerard Hogan, for Dr Georgopoulos, that on October
10th, 1989, the doctor took up the post. He was receiving a salary of about
£18,377.

Mr Hogan said that in March 1991 the board purported to carry out an
investigation against Dr Georgopoulos in respect of certain complaints and
purported to dismiss him - in a letter on March 26th, 1991 - on the grounds that
the board found he was unavailable to medical and nursing staff on numerous
occasions when on duty; that the performance of his duties was unsatisfactory on
occasions, and he thereby placed the management and care of the patients at
risk. The board also contended that on numerous occasions he was unco-operative
with medical, paramedical and nursing staff.

Dr Georgopoulos took legal proceedings, as a result of which the hospital dealt
afresh with the complaints. The board, having heard the evidence, purported once
again to dismiss Dr Georgopoulos.

Mr Hogan said the legal assessor to the board withdrew with members of the board
and gave legal advice in private. The terms of the advice were not disclosed to
the parties and, in particular, to Dr Georgopoulos's legal advisers. The doctor
and his advisers had no means of ascertaining the nature of the advice and
whether it was correct in law. They were wrongly denied the opportunity of
commenting, raising requisitions, and of making a plea in mitigation.

The hearing before Mr Justice Murphy continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1993 The Irish Times


                              257 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             August 18, 2014 Monday

Halifax Health defends whistleblower settlement

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1170  words


whistleblower lawsuit

PORT ORANGE -- A federal whistleblower lawsuit that cost Halifax Health $120
million in settlement and legal expenses boiled down to a single sentence in a
contract, hospital leaders said Monday during their first of three town hall
meetings.

Hospital officials took aim at what they say are confusing, unclear and
draconian health care regulations, while vowing to beef up compliance efforts to
ensure the 678-bed public hospital system is protected moving forward.

Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel said laws need to be changed because the hospital
faced a huge penalty for merely trying to structure agreements to maintain the
community's trauma unit and retain cancer doctors to treat indigent patients. No
inappropriate care was ever delivered by the hospital, and instead, the case
involved interpretations of language in physician contracts, he said.

"We take care of everyone in our community," Feasel told an audience of about 40
during a 9 a.m. meeting at the Riverside Pavilion in Port Orange. "These
physicians that were raked over the coals and made to feel like they criminally
did something wrong are the very physicians who get up in the middle of the
night on Christmas Eve, on the weekend and take care of people who can't pay for
their health care."

Elin Baklid-Kunz, a former compliance officer, filed the lawsuit in June 2009.
The suit accused the hospital of maintaining illegal contracts with six cancer
doctors and three neurosurgeons that violated the Stark Law, a statute that
prohibits paying doctors based on referrals and volume.

Public comments from Halifax Health officials about the suit have been limited
until now because the matter was being litigated. The lawsuit was broken into
two cases. The first case involving allegations of improper physician contracts
was settled for $85 million in March. The hospital settled the remaining claims
this past month for $1 million plus $4.5 million in the whistleblower's legal
fees.

Marlan Wilbanks, an attorney for the whistleblower, disagreed with the
hospital's description of the lawsuit. The laws Halifax Health was accused of
breaking are in place to protect patients by ensuring doctors don't make
treatment decisions based on financial inducements, he said.

"It wasn't a single line in a contract," Wilbanks said. "It was about creating a
bonus pool for physicians that the more procedures they did, the more money that
the hospital made. It's asking people to disregard the facts, disregard the law
and pretend that the mistake wasn't so monumental that it cost them $85 million.
That's a fantasy."

Faced with mounting legal fees that topped $20 million, the prospect of endless
appeals and a potential $1 billion-plus judgment if the matter went to trial,
hospital officials said they settled the matter even though they didn't think
they did anything wrong. In addition to the settlement costs, the hospital spent
about $24 million on its legal defense plus an additional $10 million it paid to
the whistleblower's attorneys.

The U.S. Department of Justice joined part of the suit in 2011, arguing
employment agreements, such as the ones at Halifax Health, give incentives
doctors to perform more tests and procedures. Initially, the Justice Department
demanded $185 million to settle the matter, hospital officials said, an amount
they refused to pay.

In March, the hospital agreed to pay $85 million and abide by the terms of a
five-year corporate integrity agreement, which will give the federal government
greater oversight into the hospital's operations. Hospital officials say they
welcome the increased scrutiny because it will help protect the hospital from
future violations. It will cost about $350,000 a year for the hospital to abide
by the terms of the agreement.

Ann Martorano, the hospital's chief operating officer, said the hospital paid
bonuses to six cancer doctors based on 15 percent of the department's operating
margin. This was done to give doctors an incentive to be efficient in operating
the oncology department, and the bonuses averaged only about $20,000 per doctor
per year, she said.

"It was never about any unnecessary care that was given to any patient or the
quality of that care or any bills that were sent to Medicare for services that
should not have been rendered to patients," Martorano said. "It was never about
any of that. What you'll find is it was really about language in a contract."

Baklid-Kunz alerted her supervisor before filing the lawsuit. The hospital
checked into the employment agreements. Audrey Pike, associate general counsel,
wrote in a Nov. 10, 2008, memo the contracts appeared to violate the Stark Law
and recommended self- reporting the matter to the government.

Instead of self-reporting, Dave Davidson, chief general counsel, solicited an
outside legal opinion from McDermott, Will and Emery, a Chicago-based law firm.
The law firm stated in a Feb. 9, 2009, memo that a "reasonable argument" existed
the contracts could be defended but added no assurances could be given that a
court or the federal government would agree.

After receiving that opinion, Davidson authorized the hospital to pay the last
bonus in March 2009 and then restructured the agreements to provide fixed
bonuses. Pike's boss, Davidson, resigned his position effective Oct. 1, but he
did not give a reason for the resignation.

The government also alleged the hospital paid three of its neurosurgeons above
fair market value.

Neurosurgeons were well-paid by the hospital because they provided
around-the-clock coverage for the hospital's trauma unit, Martorano said.

The top-paid neurosurgeon Dr. Federico Vinas made $1.9 million in 2008, which
Martorano said is in line with what other neurosurgeons in Central Florida earn.

Two doctors left Halifax Health for more lucrative positions elsewhere, and the
three remaining physicians agreed to pick up the extra work, contributing to
their earnings, she said.

The second part of the lawsuit focused on allegations that Halifax Health
overcharged Medicare for short hospital stays of two days or less. The hospital
"basically won" that part of the lawsuit and settled for $1 million to avoid
future legal expenses, Martorano said.

Several questions submitted in writing from audience members focused on why the
hospital didn't self-report the violation as suggested by their associate
general counsel. That was a question voiced by Dr. Remigio Lacsamana, a retired
physician who served as president of Halifax Health's medical staff in the
1980s.

"They should have listened better to concerns back in 2008 when Elin Baklid-Kunz
was working for the compliance department," Lacsamana said after the meeting.

Others, though, expressed satisfaction with how the hospital handled the manner.

"This is yesterday," said Joie Alexander, a former county councilwoman from
Southeast Volusia County. "Now, let's go on with the great hospital and the
leadership team we have and move forward."

Town hall meetings will also be held on Tuesday and Wednesday in Daytona Beach.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              258 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                            November 12, 2012 Monday

Legal row over GP threat to withhold cash from hospital

BYLINE: Rachel Allen

LENGTH: 313  words


Addenbrooke's is in a legal wrangle with a group of GPs threatening to withhold
more than half a million pounds.

The hospital has sought legal advice after the GPs, who make up the shadow
clinical commissioning group (CCG), threatened to withhold £547,000 - which
equates to 2 per cent of its monthly payment  - because they say seven hospital
departments failed to meet a treatment target.

The hospital has also incurred a £113,000 penalty from NHS Cambridgeshire, the
shadow CCG's predecessor, for failing to meet the 18 week referral-to-treatment
target.

This comes just over a month after the trust was docked £104,000 for cancer
treatment delays for a third consecutive quarter and was required to explain
itself to hospital regulator Monitor.

Hospital directors voiced their concerns at a board meeting last week. Jim
Potter, vice-chairman of the trust, said: "I'd like to know what the plan is
with the CCG because this will be alarming for the board."

A board report says the CCG made the threat under a "contractual clause" with
the hospital after specialties failed to meet "expected recovery dates".

Dr Karen Castille, interim chief executive, said: "As the board would expect
because of the significance of the potential to withhold some of their funding
we have quite rightly taken legal advice about this and contractually that's not
possible.

"We have written to the CCG to that effect and they have said they too would
like to take legal advice."

Tim Bennett, director of operations, said various action plans are in place to
meet the target, which should happen in the quarter starting in  January.

NHS Cambridgeshire said it is working with the trust to improve its performance
and "no final decision" has been made on withholding 2 per cent, which it says
is set out in the trust's NHS contract. Any funds held back would be released
once the 18-week standard is met.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2012 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             August 28, 1998 Friday

Researchers at Sick Kids threaten to leave  Renowned Toronto hospital urged to
hold independent inquiry into dispute between doctor and drug firm

BYLINE: BY KRISTA FOSS and PAUL TAYLOR The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: Toronto


The renowned Hospital for Sick Children could face an exodus of its top
researchers because it has failed to support one of them in a dispute with a
drug company.

"We could enter a dark age at Sick Kids," predicted Brenda Gallie, director of
the hospital's blood and cancer research program.

At a news conference yesterday, Dr. Gallie said she will take her research
elsewhere if the hospital does not call an independent inquiry into the dispute
involving Nancy Olivieri and Apotex Inc.

Last week, the hospital announced an external review of its policies and
procedures for clinical trials. But 140 doctors and researchers at the hospital
have signed a petition asking that the hospital instead review the specifics of
the dispute between Dr. Olivieri and the drug firm.

Dr. Olivieri was threatened with legal action by Apotex Inc., which had paid for
the research, if she went public with negative results in her study of a drug
for thalassemia. Researchers are upset that the hospital administration failed
to supply her with legal support.

The Hospital for Sick Children's "administration has made it very clear that
there would be absolutely no effort to investigate the many questions left
hanging by the Apotex drug trial issue," Dr. Gallie said. "We believe that this
is not adequate."

Another prominent researcher, Peter Durie, told the news conference that the
atmosphere of academic freedom had been "poisoned" at the hospital -- and that
future research was hanging in the balance.

In the next two months, for instance, Dr. Gallie and fellow researcher Helen
Chan will be conducting a clinical trial of a treatment for young children with
a rare eye cancer. The $1.5-million study will follow 350 patients with
retinoblastoma in 20 hospitals around the world, and has been funded by the U.S.
National Institutes of Health.

Both Dr. Gallie and Dr. Chan say they cannot conduct the trial under the current
circumstances until the issues with Dr. Olivieri have been aired -- and the
hospital's relationship to Apotex spelled out.

"If we are going to be leading the world in this trial, we want it to be in a
place where there is openness and trust," Dr. Chan said. "Other centres will
question if there was any complicity to hide the truth."

Dr. Olivieri has not been the only one to receive legal threats as the
controversy separates researchers who are speaking out from those who support
the administration.

This week, Dr. Gallie received a letter from another hospital doctor suggesting
legal action will be taken against her for remarks she made to the media
recently.

As Dr. Gallie plans for her new retinoblastoma study, her situation at the
hospital gets more uncomfortable. Dr. Gallie said that authority over the design
of clinical trials conducted within the Hospital for Sick Children lies with its
Division of Clinical Pharmacology. The director of that division is Gideon Koren
-- the doctor who claimed he was defamed by Dr. Gallie.

The researchers' concerns are reverberating beyond the hospital's walls. "This
is a big deal," said Arthur Schafer, director of the Centre for Professional and
Applied Ethics at the University of Manitoba.

"The Hospital for Sick Children is not just any hospital, it is our pre-eminent
children's hospital," Prof. Schafer said. "If this can happen to Nancy Olivieri,
it can happen to any physician or researcher in Canada."

But there are no indications the hospital will broaden the scope of its review.
"The hospital will continue to put together the external review to look at our
policies and procedures," said Cyndy DeGiusti, a spokeswoman for the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                           December 23, 2008 Tuesday

Pill increasingly used to perform legal abortions

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 366 words


Although 98 percent of the women who requested permission for a legal abortion
were granted it, the abortion rates among females younger than 20 and over 35
are lower in Israel than in most European countries.

However, a new Health Ministry report on legal abortion statistics, released for
publication Tuesday, does not relate to illegal abortions, which experts
estimate are about as frequent as legal ones.

Legal abortions are performed in most of the public and private hospitals, and
an increasing number are not surgical; rather, the young fetus is expelled from
the uterus with the mifepristone "abortion pill" (known commercially as
Mifegyne).

Of the 19,544 legal abortions done in 2007, nearly 5,000 were carried out with
the pill, which requires strict doctors' supervision and follow-up and is seen
as causing fewer complications than a surgical abortion. The percentage of
abortions via Mifegyne has doubled since 2000.

The use of Mifegyne to abort was much more common at the two Hadassah University
Medical Centers in Jerusalem (72%) than in Clalit Health Services hospitals
(53%), government hospitals (50%) and private hospitals (30%).

Although 20,919 requested permission for an abortion and 20,505 were approved,
only 19,544 women actually aborted their fetuses. The approval rate of 98% has
remained steady since 1995, when it was 93%; in 1990, it was only 89%.

Public abortion committees have been operating in the hospitals since 1977, when
the Abortion Law was passed. They are comprised of gynecologists, social
workers, clergymen and others.

Legal abortion is allowed in cases of illegal sexual relations according to the
criminal law, such as incest or sex outside marriage; when continuing the
pregnancy is liable to endanger the woman's life or cause her physical or
psychological harm; when the fetus is liable to suffer from a physical or mental
defect; and when the woman is under the legal age of marriage (17) or is 40 or
older.

More than half (55%) of the requests for an abortion were due to illicit sexual
relations; 18% due to potential danger to the woman's physical or mental state;
18% due to defects in the fetus; and 9% due to the mother's being underage or
overage.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Medical negligence in Gauteng costs R1bn;
City hospitals had to fork out R38m in payouts to patients

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 504 words


THE Gauteng Health Department has had to pay out R38.1â[#x20ac]¯million in
medical negligence claims and settlements at Pretoria hospitals.

In total, R1 billion had to be paid out on claims in the province.

In the city, Steve Biko Academic Hospital leads the pack with just over
R15â[#x20ac]¯million in claims, the bulk of which stemmed from two amputation
cases.

Two patients were paid out a combined R11m and another R1.2m for what was
described as a complicated birth caused by nursing staff.

Another patient was paid out R853â[#x20ac]¯000 for an amputated finger, while a
family got R529â[#x20ac]¯000 for an unspecified incident that led to a death.
The hospital had a combined 14 cases that resulted in a cash settlements.

The Pretoria West Hospital had the second highest cash settlements in the city -
just under R10m.

The hospital had four cases, the largest being R7.6m for a baby whose brain was
damaged during birth.

A further R1.1m was paid out for negligence in failing to properly examine the
patient prior to her giving birth.

George Mukhari Hospital was held accountable for a R4m claim, paid out for a
cerebral palsy case and R1.5m for two cases involving the deaths of the
patients, one of which was a baby. The total payout the hospital made was R6.8m
in medical negligence claims.

Odi Hospital in Mabopane had to pay a R4.5m settlement for only two cases. A
pregnant woman was paid R3.8m after her arm was amputated.

In its only incident requiring a monetary settlement, the Mamelodi Hospital was
liable for a patient's mental retardation and cerebral palsy, for which
R841â[#x20ac]¯658 was paid out.

The department paid out R900â[#x20ac]¯000 for the death of a baby at the Stanza
Bopape Community Health Centre.

These medical negligence claims and settlements were from January 2015 to date.

The department paid out a whopping R1â[#x20ac]¯billion to settle 185 medical
negligence claims at all health facilities in the province since the beginning
of 2015.

"The MEC expressed concern about the rising medico legal claims. She believes
that the legal audit under way will come up with the best possible solution on
how to handle medico claims going forward," the department said.

Khutso Rabothata, spokesperson for the department, said they had saved about
R61m in medico legal claims through mediation.

This amount accounts for various cases which were taken through a mediation
process instead of following the legal route. "To reduce medico legal claims,
the department has conducted a legal audit to try to get to the bottom of the
escalation. The mediation process forms part of the department's alternative
dispute resolutions, which are yielding positive results," Rabothata said.

The department did not respond to allegations by DA shadow MEC for health Jack
Bloom that it had not disciplined any of the staff involved in these incidents.
"It is astounding that no staff at all have been disciplined for any of the
negligence cases. Errant doctors should always be referred to the Health
Professions Council and nurses to the SA Nursing Council," Bloom had said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            December 8, 2006 Friday

Legal challenge to private clinic

BYLINE:  John Le Couteur j.lecouteur

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words


Plans to build a privately-run medical centre treating NHS patients in South
Gloucester- shire have been derailed by a legal challenge.

The Independent Sector Treatment Centre (ISTC) which was expected to be built in
Emerson's Green sparked  controversy as it was not included in the original
Bristol Health Services Plan, a blueprint for future hospital and healthcare
provision in the city, and had not been subject to public consultation.

But it now faces a judicial review brought by an unnamed member of the public
who has been granted legal aid for a ruling on whether the NHS should have
consulted about its plans for an ISTC.

The legal challenge has been made by a member of the Save Frenchay Hospital
group. Although the group has refused to reveal who the member is, it is
understood she is an unemployed woman from St George who has been granted legal
aid.

News of the legal challenge was only revealed when South Gloucestershire Council
called a meeting of its health scrutiny sub-committee to ask NHS South West
bosses questions on the same issue.

The NHS pulled out of the meeting, arranged for next Monday, and gave the
pending legal challenge as the reason why it could not answer questions.

The council's cabinet wanted to know why people were not told about the ISTC
during the consultation over the Bristol Hospital Services Plan to downgrade
Frenchay to a community hospital and promote Southmead as the new acute
hospital.

Labour councillor Andy Perkins (Woodstock), a member of the council's health
scrutiny sub-committee which would have questioned NHS bosses, said: "It is
disappointing that local NHS bosses have decided not to turn up to our meeting.

"There are some very important questions that we need answering and it's a shame
that they feel they ought to keep quiet, pending the legal challenge."

Monday's meeting will still go ahead, but only to be formally opened and
adjourned to a later date.

The council has also dropped its own plans to mount a legal challenge to the
ISTC but it will continue to demand answers from the Secretary of Health over
her decision not to allow public consultation over the decision to build the
ISTC.

Debbie Pugh-Jones, spokeswoman for the NHS South West ISTC, said: "The NHS has
been advised by its legal advisers that, as the ISTC programme in South
Gloucestershire is now subject to court proceedings, it is inappropriate for us
to take part in any discussions or make any comment which might have a bearing
on those proceedings.

"The NHS is vigorously defending this legal challenge and hopes that it will be
successfully resolved in the near future."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright (c) 2010 by the State Bar of Arizona
                                Arizona Attorney

                                  March, 2010

                                Arizona Attorney

                                46 AZ Attorney 6

LENGTH: 536 words

FRONT: PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE: CALLING LEADERS TO SERVICE

by Raymond A. Hanna

TEXT:


 [*6]  When I was elected to the State Bar of Arizona's Board of Governors in
2000, I was cycling off as a Representative to the Mexico City Shriners
Hospital. Mexico City has the busiest of the 19 Shriners Orthopedic Hospitals.
All newly initiated Shriners are asked to visit a hospital within one year of
initiation.

   The mission of the Shriners Hospitals is to provide the highest quality care
to children with orthopedic and burn injuries without cost to the patient or
family. Hospital representatives are required to cover their own travel and
lodging expenses and to contribute in a meaningful way to the hospital's
mission. I was on the facilities committee, which was charged with helping
maintain a very old building before the newer state-of-the-art hospital was
build near the football stadium. That old Mexico City hospital was in a historic
district close to Leon Trotsky's compound and Frida Kahlo's little blue house.

   Members of the State Bar of Arizona commit to support legal services for the
defenseless and oppressed when they take the oath of admission to the Bar, After
joining the Board of Governors, I quickly became a Fellow of the Arizona Bar
Foundation (now called the Arizona Foundation for Legal Services & Education) to
help fulfill my commitment to providing access to justice to Arizona's most
needy. Then and now, lawyers I respect and admire made the same commitment to
legal services and education.

   Members of the State Bar of Arizona have a golden opportunity to renew their
commitments by becoming a member of the "Next Generation of Fellows." For a
contribution of $ 1,000 (which can be pledged as $ 200 per year for five years),
Arizona lawyers may, for a five-year period, be a member of that next
generation, joining the legacy of Arizona's Founding Fellows. This is a
substantial but realistic contribution, based on the average lawyer's income.

   Programs administered though through the Foundation include:

     - Lawforkids.org
     - Kids Voting Arizona
     - Lawforseniors.org
     - Azlawhelp.org
     - Modest Means & Legal Learn Contact Center
     - Mock Trial
     - Arizona Teen Court
     - We the People
     - Project Citizen
     - Law Related Academy
     - CSI Arizona
     - Legal Service Project for DV Survivors
     - Bankruptcy Hotline
     - Arizona Civic Coalition

   Programs partially funded by the Foundation also include:

     - Community Legal Services
     - DNA--People's Legal Services
     - Southern Arizona Legal Aid
     - Florence Immigration Project
     - The Never Again Foundation
     - Chrysalis Shelter
     - Defenders for Children
     - Medical Legal Partnerships
     - William E. Morris Institute for Justice

   It is hard not to appreciate the value of these programs for the children and
residents of the State of Arizona. More important, becoming a part of the
Arizona Foundation for Legal Services & Education will fulfill your commitment
to access to justice, will make you feel better, and will speak loudly of your
commitment to serving Arizona's most needy.

   Please visit the Foundation's Web site (www.azflse.org) and consider joining
their mission in 2010. Becoming a member of the Next Generation of Arizona
Fellows will enrich your life now and in the future.

   The Future is Now!

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsLocal GovernmentsAdministrative BoardsImmigration
LawAdmissionVisasMedical Examinations


                              264 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            September 1, 2014 Monday

Council leader threatens Mid Staffs with 'inevitable' legal challenge

LENGTH: 241  words


Council leader Mike Heenan (Con) has consulted lawyers in a bid to prevent
Stafford Hospital from losing its consultant-led maternity department.


It would be the third legal challenge to changes at the troubled hospital since
the health secretary accepted the report of trust special administrators in
February.
This concluded the trust was clinically and financially unsustainable.
As part of his announcement to dissolve the trust, Jeremy Hunt recommended a
review of  Stafford's consultant-led maternity service.
The hospital is due in November to be taken over by the University Hospital of
North Staffordshire, which has indicated it may close the department before the
review is complete.
Cllr Heenan said maternity services had always been the "red line".
"If the likelihood is that line has been crossed, it seems inevitable the
council will launch a legal challenge to fight any decision that does not
protect a full maternity service at Stafford."
He added: "The people of Stafford have indicated clearly that they do not
support the movement of consultant led maternity services to UHNS and
Wolverhampton.
"I immediately consulted our solicitors with a view to pursuing a legal
challenge.
"We must take their advice on the timing and type of action this would mean as
my only aim is to ensure we protect a full maternity service at Stafford
Hospital, and to do that we need the proper and professional legal advice."
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             March 20, 1987 Friday

WOMAN'S WOMB PLEA SETS LEGAL TEST CASE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPGROUP

LENGTH: 299 words


CORRECTION Woman's womb plea sets legal test case SYDNEY._ A woman who wants to
keep her uterus after a hysterectomy is willing to go to court to enforce her
wish. The request is set to become a legal test case. Mrs Ana Presland's
operation at the Balmain Hospital was postponed on Wednesday an hour before it
was due to start. The hospital feared a legal wrangle which would have seen a
Supreme Court injunction placed on it to prevent the organ's disposal. The
unusual case questions the law that there can be no property interests in the
human body or any of its parts and, therefore, it cannot be owned, bought or
sold. Mrs Presland, 35, of Leichhardt, Sydney, said yesterday she was disgusted
that a person could donate organs for transplant in the event of death but could
not keep them. Mrs Presland said she honored the uterus because of its role in
the creation of human life. She believed she needed to see the uterus after the
operation as part of the acceptance that she could no longer have children. She
has three boys and, with her husband, Sean, was hoping to have a girl. Mrs
Presland's surgeon, Dr Louis Izzo, said if she wanted to keep the uterus, ""I'm
happy for her to have it". But Dr Robert Spark, the hospital medical
superintendent, said New South Wales Health Department regulations stated any
organ must be given to a hospital's pathology department after an operation.
Spokesmen for the Brisbane Mater Hospital, Royal Brisbane Women's Hospital and
the Australian Medical Association Brisbane branch said last night hospitals
would have to seek legal advice if such a situation arose. A Mater Hospital
spokesman said human organs, including the appendix, were not given to patients
for health and hygiene reasons. ANA Presland . . . honors the human uterus.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIC OF ANA PRESLAND

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1987 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              266 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

BMC turns to legal experts to solve row with Seven Hills

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 265  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said it will take a
month to find a solution to the row over signing an MoU with Seven Hills
Hospital. The civic body is consulting legal experts to serve a show-cause
notice to the hospital, said civic officials.

While the BMC and Seven Hills have managed to sort out five of the six
contentious issues under the agreement, the MoU has been pending over the latter
providing free medicines to municipal quota patients. The issue has remained
contentious as the draft lease agreement mentions that the hospital can charge
for medicines.

Standing Committee members had given the administration a week's deadline to
draw a proper plan for the MoU. "The signing of the MoU has been delayed and as
a result poor patients are suffering. The hospital is taking the BMC for a ride.
Some stern action needs to be taken against it," said Sameer Desai, Congress
Corporator and Standing Committee member.

Municipal Commissioner Subodh Kumar said a decision will be taken within a
month. "We are considering the legal possibilities of the case. We will first
try to resolve the matter and convince the hospital to sign the MoU. If that
does not happen, we will contemplate legal action."

This is in contrast to the tender condition as well as the Improvements
Committee resolution and the corporation resolution, which say the medicines
will be provided on the same lines as in civic hospitals. ""We have sought legal
advice and will proceed to take legal action once everything is put in place,"
said Additional Municipal Commissioner Manisha Mhaiskar.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 993 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2014 Georgetown Journal of Legal Ethics
                       Georgetown Journal of Legal Ethics

                                  Summer, 2014

                       Georgetown Journal of Legal Ethics

                          27 Geo. J. Legal Ethics 473

LENGTH: 7811 words

CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS 2013-2014: The Un-privileged Industry: Assessing the
Detriments of an Independent Compliance Office in Health Care Fraud Litigation

NAME: KUSH DAS *

BIO:



   * J.D., Georgetown University Law Center (expected May 2015); B.A., George
Washington University (May 2012). (c) 2014, Kush Das.

 TEXT:
 [*473]  INTRODUCTION

   Health care is a heavily regulated industry.  n1 Whereas financial
institutions have recently encountered stringent compliance and regulatory
reforms,  n2 the health care industry has always faced dense and difficult
regulatory challenges. Moreover, as a growing sector of the economy, large
health care business entities are also increasingly subject to financial
regulation and scrutiny.  n3 The large for-profit publicly traded hospital
systems that dominate the health care industry are subject to the same stringent
disclosure and audit regulations enforced by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) that affect non-health related publicly traded companies.  n4
However, hospital systems must not only consider the finance and audit
requirements of the SEC, but must also adhere to the regulations of the
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).  n5 Therefore, hospital systems
have to adhere to multiple complex regulatory bodies.

   Additionally, the health compliance space is rapidly changing. With a renewed
Department of Justice and HHS focus on prosecuting hospital systems for
violations of the Stark Law, Anti-Kickback Statute, and Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), as well as the ongoing
implementation of the Sunshine Act and the Affordable Care Act, a hospital
system's legal compliance function will have to focus on aligning internal
policies and practices in an increasingly dense and complex legal arena that
carries a considerable risk of civil and criminal litigation.  n6 Furthermore,
the fervent application of the False Claims Act is constantly forcing hospital
systems into civil litigation.  n7  [*474]  Overall, it is becoming increasingly
difficult for hospital systems to navigate the health care fraud and abuse
space.

   Thus, most hospital systems have developed an office of corporate compliance
with the primary goal of aligning internal policies with an increasingly dense
and complex legal arena.  n8 Regardless of the quasi-legal function, a corporate
compliance office adhering to HHS recommendations is independent of the system's
general counsel, preventing the corporate compliance officers from enjoying the
attorney-client privilege granted to the general counsel and to outside counsel
when in the litigation phase of a fraud and abuse matter.  n9 Corporate
compliance offices conforming to HHS guidance are deprived of the privilege
granted to attorneys and subordinates in litigation, even though the officers
are conducting the investigations and interviews that inevitably impact
litigation.  n10 Thus, hospital systems forsake an early litigation defense
mechanism while the protections of attorney-client privilege are being
increasingly diluted in the context of compliance functions.  n11 Instead of
having such a disconnected system between the compliance investigators and
litigators, hospital systems should conduct privileged investigations in
anticipation of litigation by an attorney or by an attorney's agent or
investigator.

   This paper will argue that the general counsel should conduct corporate
compliance. Part I will discuss the development of the independent compliance
officer, the increasing health care fraud and abuse litigation, and the issues
in government guidance regarding health care compliance. Part II will discuss
the attorney-client privilege, its applicability to the hospital system's
general counsel, and its applicability to agents or investigators working under
the general counsel. Part III will discuss the benefits of privileged
pre-litigation investigations. Part IV will recommend a protocol that allows the
general counsel to function as the corporate compliance officer to ensure
privileged pre-litigation investigations.

   I. BACKGROUND

   The following sections will discuss the development of the independent
compliance officer, the current trends in health care fraud and abuse
litigation,  [*475]  and the inherent incongruities between the government's
guidance and the government's enforcement.

   A. DEVELOPMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT COMPLIANCE OFFICER

   Developing hospital compliance programs have received guidance from the HHS
Office of Inspector General (OIG). OIG provides detailed structural and
procedural guidance to help hospital systems develop compliance programs with
independent compliance offices.  n12 The guidance focuses on preventing
compliance violations by developing strong training and audit systems with
independent compliance departments that have a strong preference towards
self-disclosure.  n13 The OIG also argues the merits of self-disclosure and
cooperation with government enforcement to avoid substantial penalties.  n14
While advocating for an independent compliance department, the guidance
nonetheless warns that certain measures suggested involve legal dilemmas that
require consultation with legal counsel.  n15 Hospital systems are aggressively
attempting to conform to compliance guidance to reduce the growing risk of
government enforcement litigation.  n16

   OIG guidance describes the compliance officer designation.  n17 OIG requires
that the compliance officer have multiple legal skills including the statutory
and contract interpretation skills necessary to (1) adequately develop and
communicate policy based on legal documents to non-legal entities, (2) review
documents to determine legal violations, and (3) supervise investigations to
determine legal violations.  n18 Thus, OIG asks the compliance officer to either
be a lawyer or function like one. However, while it requires mastery of legal
skills, OIG subsequently warns against the conflation of the roles of the
hospital system general counsel with the system's compliance officer. OIG
suggests that the compliance officer report directly to senior officers by
arguing that "there is some risk to establishing an independent compliance
function if that function is subordinance to the hospital's general counsel . .
. free standing compliance functions help to ensure independent and objective
legal reviews."  n19 OIG seeks to achieve a system of checks and balances on
corporate officers to adequately achieve the goals of the compliance program,
n20 which are meant to "establish a culture within a hospital that promotes
prevention, detection and resolution of  [*476]  instances of conduct that do
not conform to federal and state law."  n21 The agency distrusts the general
counsel as a legal compliance entity.  n22 While prevention, detection, and
resolution are undoubtedly important, health care is a cost-conscious industry
that needs protection from costly litigation, and it is typically the general
counsel's duty to protect a hospital system's liability profile.  n23 Thus,
OIG's focus on prevention and disclosure disregards a tremendously impactful
aspect of a liability profile: the ability to prepare a strong litigation
defense.

   B. INCREASING HEALTH FRAUD AND ABUSE LITIGATION

   The HHS OIG projected that fraud and abuse accounts for between three percent
and fifteen percent of health care expenditures in the United States.  n24 The
National Healthcare and Antifraud Association Report suggests that fraud and
abuse ranges between three percent to ten percent of total health care
expenditures, while the Congressional Budget Office places the cost at ten
percent and U.S. Chamber of Commerce places the cost at fifteen percent.  n25

   The federal government has reacted by creating the Health Care Fraud
Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) in 2009 to prevent fraud, waste,
and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  n26 The Department of Justice,
HHS, FBI, and U.S. Attorney's Office have together recovered a record $ 4.2
billion in the 2012 Fiscal Year.  n27 The Justice Department also opened 1131
new criminal health care fraud investigations involving 2,148 potential
defendants and convicted 826 defendants in 2012.  n28 The HEAT strike force also
conducted a takedown for participation in Medicare fraud schemes that involved
over 107 individuals in seven cities and involved about $ 452 million in false
billings.  n29

   The Justice Department's Civil Division Fraud Section also continued its
success in civil health care fraud enforcement in 2012 by obtaining settlements
and judgments of more than $ 3 billion under the False Claims Act (FCA).  n30

    [*477]  C. CONCEPTUAL INCONGRUITY IN GOVERNMENT ACTION

   Health care government enforcement litigation is rampant. While OIG
promulgates guidance suggesting compliance programs that focus on prevention and
disclosure, the investigation and litigation arm of the OIG and the Justice
Department files civil suits and criminal claims against hospitals. The suits
are heavily dependent on investigation gathering and discovery, and the
government has the benefit of conducting discovery from in-hospital auditors
that can claim no privilege.  n31 To investigate, prosecutors and plaintiffs use
subpoenas, civil investigative demands, search warrants, and grand jury
investigations.  n32 An investigation, interview, and document review conducted
by an auditor could be outside the scope of the attorney-client privilege,  n33
and the government's guidance of an ideal compliance program only furthers the
risk of hospitals forsaking attorney-client privilege before litigation ensues.

   Litigation is adversarial. Both civil litigation and criminal prosecution
requires zealous and competent advocacy.  n34 When the government litigates
health care fraud, it is within both the adversarial criminal and the civil
court systems. However, OIG expects hospital system compliance departments to
operate transparently without defensive considerations. The inherent conflict
between OIG's guidance regarding transparent prevention and OIG's
litigation-based enforcement mechanism is an irreconcilable incongruity.

   II. PRIVILEGE ENJOYED BY THE GENERAL COUNSEL

   Before analyzing the flaws of an independent corporate compliance office, the
true extent of the privilege enjoyed by the general counsel and outside counsel
must be understood. Generally, attorney-client privilege will turn on "who
receives the information, why the information is received, and how the
information is being used."  n35 The generally accepted standard, which invokes
attorney-client privilege, is based on United States v. Shoe Machinery Corp.,
where the judge granted a claim for attorney-client privilege when (1) the
asserted holder of the privilege is or sought to become a client; (2) the person
to whom the communication was made is a member of the bar of a court, or his
subordinate, and in connection with this communication is acting as a lawyer;
and (3) the communication relates to the fact of which the attorney was informed
by his client, without the presence of strangers, and for the purpose of
securing  [*478]  primarily either an opinion of law, legal services, of
assistance in some legal proceeding, not for the purpose of committing a crime
or tort.  n36 All three factors must be met in order to invoke privilege.

   Moreover, the Supreme Court in Upjohn v. United States has applied the
privilege to corporations if: (1) the communications were made by corporate
employees to corporate counsel in order for the corporate officers to secure
legal advice from counsel; (2) the information needed by corporate counsel to
formulate legal advice was not available to upper level management; (3) the
information communicated concerned matters within the scope of the employee's
corporate duties; (4) the employees were aware that the reason for the
communications with counsel was so that the corporation could obtain legal
advice; and (5) the communications were ordered to be kept confidential and they
remained confidential.  n37

   This section will discuss the application of the attorney-client privilege to
the general counsel and to investigators and agents of attorneys.

   A. APPLICATION OF THE ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE TO THE GENERAL COUNSEL

   The general counsel that is conducting internal investigations involving
employees in order to detect the existence or extent of the legal breach is
doing so with the protection of attorney-client privilege. The privilege, and
the general counsel's right to exercise it, is essential in helping corporations
interpret and adhere to the dense regulatory arena where legal counsel is often
required to ensure compliance with law that is "hardly an instinctive matter."
n38

   The general counsel is protected by the work product doctrine, which
potentially extends to all materials a lawyer prepared on behalf of a client in
preparation for litigation.  n39 Thus, the general counsel enjoys a substantial
privilege in restraining certain conversations and materials from discovery.
n40 In the context of a compliance investigation, the general counsel's ability
to employ the privilege is based on numerous factors. As a base threshold, the
privilege will not apply to unsolicited transmittal of allegations since the
privilege is only triggered by a client's request for legal advice and is
limited to "communications made to attorneys solely for the purpose of the
corporation seeking legal advice and its counsel rendering it."  n41 However, if
the general counsel (1) is an in-house lawyer acting in a legal capacity and (2)
is working for the purpose of providing  [*479]  legal advice, then a review of
the initial communications and subsequent communications may qualify for the
privilege.  n42

   In deciding whether the lawyer is acting in a legal capacity, it is important
to note that since an in house lawyer typically has multiple functions including
giving business advice, a court will examine the circumstances to determine
whether the lawyer is acting as a lawyer or as a business advisor or management
decision-maker.  n43 There is a presumption that a lawyer in the legal
department or working for the general counsel is giving legal advice, and a
corresponding presumption that a lawyer working for a financial department or
some other seemingly management or business side of the house is giving business
advice.  n44 Thus, a lawyer working within the general counsel's legal
department that has a compliance function likely satisfies the first prong of
the test.

   In deciding whether a general counsel is acting for the purpose of providing
legal advice, the court will analyze whether an internal review is being
conducted as an adjunct or precursor to giving legal advice.  n45 A simple
fact-finding investigation would not qualify, but a fact-finding investigation
that is being conducted to provide legal advice or a fact-finding investigation
in which legal analysis is valuable would qualify.  n46 Thus, a hospital system
could argue, "that a layman could not have capably performed the same act
because the skills, background, and legal training of the attorney were
necessary elements to make an independent legal analysis or legal
recommendation."  n47 Moreover, litigation does not necessarily need to be
imminent to protect work-product as long as the primary motivating purpose
behind the creation of the document was to aid in possible future litigation.
n48

   It is undoubtedly possible for the general counsel to prudently claim
attorney-client privilege in the realm of health fraud and abuse compliance by
simply being in charge of the health fraud and abuse compliance program and
investigational process. A general counsel that is in charge of the compliance
function could argue the difficulty of statutory interpretation, administrative
law, and agency guidance in articulating the necessities of legal analysis in
compliance investigations in preparation for litigation. By necessitating legal
advice and analysis, the attorney-client privilege can apply.

    [*480]  B. APPLICATION OF THE ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE TO INVESTIGATORS AND
AGENTS

   Agents of the general counsel acting with an investigatory purpose to
facilitate the promulgation of legal advice may also invoke the attorney-client
privilege. Federally, the "work product doctrine protects not only materials
that are prepared by attorneys themselves but also by their investigators or
other agents."  n49 In fact, handwritten notes taken by non-attorney members of
a litigation team could also be protected.  n50 Federal courts have found that a
distinction based on who had taken a witnesses' statements obtained in
preparation for litigation for use in representing a client at trial would
discriminate frivolously against lawyers who delegate investigations work.  n51
Thus, an auditor or investigator working in a pre-litigation compliance function
under the supervision of the general counsel in anticipation of litigation will
also be able to invoke attorney-client privilege.

   Similarly, state jurisdictions also employ a model for pre-litigation
investigations by non-lawyers in conjunction with legal counsel.  n52 In
California, pre-litigation investigation performed by a "nonlawyer in
consultation with counsel" is protected by the attorney-client privilege.  n53
However, the privileged communication must be specifically identified and
safeguarded in order to retain its protection.  n54

   A compliance investigation would be preemptively protected only if an
attorney that directly participates in the litigation and risk mitigation
process, like the general counsel in most corporations,  n55 is leading the
pre-litigation investigation.

   III. PRIVILEGE IS ESSENTIAL IN PRE-LITIGATION INVESTIGATION

   There are substantial risks to non-privileged pre-litigation internal
investigations. Hospital systems are subject to risks associated with "civil
monetary penalties, criminal monetary penalties, or even exclusion from the
Medicare and Medicaid programs."  n56 This section will discuss the risks
associated with non-privileged investigations, which include both discovering
information requiring affirmative action to avoid liability and also uncovering
evidence that is later obtainable by adverse parties legally. The risks can be
avoided if problems  [*481]  and materials discovered through internal
investigations are privileged.  n57 Privileged internal investigations would
allow the hospital to correct the compliance issues quietly and effectively
without further exposing the hospital system to liability.

   A. DISCOVERING INFORMATION REQUIRING AFFIRMATIVE ACTION TO AVOID LIABILITY

   First, the information generated by internal investigations may identify a
previously undiscovered problem that requires affirmative action in order to
mitigate criminal or civil liability. In fact, most health care fraud and abuse
law requires intent to prove culpability.  n58

   The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits an individual from "knowingly and
willfully soliciting or receiving any remuneration . . . directly or indirectly,
overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind . . . in return for referring or
inducing to refer an individual for services payable under the Medicare or
Medicaid Programs."  n59 If violated, the statute includes penalties in the form
of a felony charge for individual actors punishable by up to five years in
prison, and a fine of $ 50,000 per act plus three times the remuneration
offered.  n60 At that point, the compliance department would be responsible for
correcting the problem by restructuring any referral system if the fraud is
systemic or disciplining employees if the fraud is discreet.

   Similarly, the False Claims Act imposes liability on hospital systems that
knowingly present a fraudulent claim or engage in a conspiracy to defraud.  n61
Since specific intent is not required, a knowing breach can occur if the
hospital system is "acting with deliberate ignorance . . . or reckless disregard
for the truth or falsity of the information."  n62 Therefore, a hospital system
that discovers a violation of the False Claims Act must immediately correct the
violation and affirmatively end any scheme in order to avoid being penalized for
conspiring to defraud. Violations of the False Claims Act include $ 5,000 to $
10,000 civil monetary penalties for each false claim filed.  n63 A corporate
compliance department would be tasked with investigating the false claim and
then taking the affirmative action to avoid being implicated for a conspiracy to
defraud.

   In contrast, the Stark Law does not require an intentional breach, but it
does  [*482]  require immediate mitigation once a breach is discovered to
prevent increased liability.  n64 The Stark Law prohibits referrals between
health care entities and physicians where there is a financial relationship
between the two.  n65 If a violation occurs, a payment for service may be
denied, repayment may be required, and civil money penalties up to $ 15,000 for
each service may be prescribed.  n66 Most significantly, however, the Stark Law
requires that any financial relationships are reported to HHS and prescribes a $
10,000 fine for each day the reporting was required and $ 100,000 fine for each
arrangement or scheme to circumvent the law.  n67 Thus, any internal
investigation that uncovered a violation of the Stark Law would require
immediately reporting the impermissible financial relationships to avoid
day-by-day penalties while simultaneously exposing the hospital system to
significant liability.

   The compliance program should be able to avoid the risk of further penalties
by discreetly correcting the statutory violation under the protection of
attorney-client privilege without the risk of being implicated because of a
failure to immediately and affirmatively take action against any possible
violation.

   B. UNCOVERING EVIDENCE LATER OBTAINABLE BYADVERSE PARTIES

   The most obvious threat to not invoking privilege is that non-privileged
information obtained through internal investigations will be subsequently
discoverable to the government as well as civil litigants.  n68 Since the 2010
amendments to the Anti-Kickback Statute, any violation of the criminal
Anti-Kickback Statute is also a violation of the civil False Claims Act.  n69
Thus, a criminal case and a civil case can be brought simultaneously. Hospitals
may be less inclined to conduct thorough internal investigations with
appropriate document collection to avoid being subject to increased liability as
a result of generating more documentation subject to discovery and subpoenas.
n70

   However, the attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine may be
used to protect the communications from discovery if litigation arises,  n71
which would help ensure that thorough internal investigations are conducted
without fear of subsequent related litigation. In fact, courts have held that
that work product privilege found in Rule 26(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure  n72 is  [*483]  applicable to work product produced in anticipation
of terminated litigation.  n73 Thus, invoking privilege in a current compliance
investigation can save a hospital system from future civil and criminal
liability.

   IV. RECOMMENDED HOSPITAL SYSTEM ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

   Every investigation in anticipation of litigation should be privileged. Since
violating the health care fraud and abuse laws often lead to litigation,
hospital systems should develop a standardized investigatory protocol that
allows for close supervision by in-house and outside counsel. The investigatory
protocol should be comprehensive in achieving a system that is closely
supervised and monitored by lawyers preparing cases for litigation.

   The general counsel should conduct compliance functions. Any compliance
officer should be an attorney and should either be the general counsel or work
under the purview of the general counsel to ensure the protection of
attorney-client privilege.  n74 By assuring that compliance officers are
attorneys that are subject to supervision by the general counsel through the
development of a privileged investigational process, a hospital system will be
protected in subsequent litigation. The lawyers should have a strong knowledge
of both the law and litigation processes and should be working to discover facts
with client advocacy in mind. Thus, the investigational process should include
appointing a subject matter legal specialist that is trained to issue spot
health care fraud and abuse matters. Moreover, the protocol should articulate
the roles of every investigator, auditor, and attorney in specifically
conducting their functions in anticipation of litigation, prepare a strategy for
handing over the findings from the investigation to outside counsel, and include
a decision making process and organization structure that falls clearly under
the hospital system's general counsel.

   A. SUBJECT MATTER LEGAL SPECIALIST THAT IS TRAINED TO ISSUE SPOT HEALTH CARE
FRAUD AND ABUSE MATTERS

   A lawyer should be the point of contact for every employee and manager in the
hospital when a compliance issue arises. It should be made explicitly clear
through training and policy announcements that all potential compliance issues
and questions are to be handled only by approaching this person. The lawyer
should have a strong working knowledge of health care fraud and abuse law
including recently active cases and settlements. By having such a strong
knowledge of statutory and regulatory law, the issue spotter would be able to
[*484]  immediately spot the subject of future litigation and would know how to
initiate the investigation procedure. It is important that the lawyer also has a
clear understanding of attorney-client privilege and the best arguments to
invoke the privilege so that he or she can most strongly argue for the privilege
if necessary.

   Most importantly, the point of contact should be responsible for charting a
clear and fact-specific course of action with the procedural goal of handing
over all findings from the investigation to outside counsel for litigation. The
issue spotter should also carefully and comprehensively document everything in
order to ensure that the best possible record is made to argue attorney-client
privilege under the work product doctrine.

   B. ROLES AND FUNCTIONS OF INVESTIGATORS, AUDITORS, AND ATTORNEYS

   It is essential that the roles and functions of every member of the hospital
system who participates in the investigation process is clearly articulated and
communicated. Developing protocols to show habit and function in the common
course of preparing for litigation will allow stronger arguments when invoking
attorney-client privilege in the discovery process.

   First, it must be articulated that every investigator, auditor, and attorney
is following set protocols for the eventual purpose of an attorney giving legal
advice to the hospital system. Any information garnered or communication had
should be for the purpose of securing legal advice.  n75 The protocols must
clearly state that the auditors and investigators are functioning as agents of
their managing attorneys in order to ascertain facts and evidence that will
later be used by their managing attorney to provide legal advice.

   If investigatory protocols are established that require auditors and
investigators to function specifically under the purview of counsel for the
eventual delivery of legal advice, then even communications from investigations
conducted by non-lawyers could be protected from discovery by attorney-client
privilege.

   C. STRATEGY FOR HANDING THE CASE FROM INVESTIGATION TO LITIGATION

   A written protocol for transferring investigative materials to outside
counsel for litigation is essential. In order to invoke the work product
doctrine to further protect investigatory materials under a second layer of
attorney-client privilege, discovery documents and tangible things must be
gathered in anticipation of litigation.  n76 Moreover, using outside counsel
strongly indicates that legal advice is being sought and materials are being
gathered in preparation for litigation.  n77 Thus, a written strategy and
protocol for handing case files and discoverable  [*485]  documents over to
outside counsel must be in place whenever liability is found or litigation is
anticipated. The written procedure should be invoked whenever an internal
investigation even remotely suggests the presence of legal impropriety, and all
further findings from discovery and materials should be transferred from the
in-house counsel to the outside counsel for further investigations and
preparation for litigation.

   D. DEVELOPING AN ORGANIZATIONAL CHART THAT CENTERS AROUND THE HOSPITAL
GENERAL COUNSEL

   In order to have the aforementioned investigatory procedures in place, an
organizational chart around compliance issues should be built around the general
counsel. The general counsel is the chief legal officer of any corporation and
is often the bridge between the corporation and outside counsel. Most
importantly, the general counsel is a lawyer that provides legal advice and
enjoys that presumption when deciding the application of attorney-client
privilege, which is a compelling argument to ensure that compliance
investigations are privileged.

   CONCLUSION

   As long as health care fraud and abuse law remains enforceable by adversarial
litigation, hospital systems should take every necessary measure to protect
themselves from costly verdicts. Although an organizational initiative to
facilitate the invocation of privilege includes the formation of strict
protocols with a working relationship between the independent non-lawyer chief
compliance officer and general counsel, a clear organizational chart will be
more effective and comprehensive. A clear organizational chart will most
effectively allow the invocation of the attorney-client privilege discussed in
Part II and will enable a subordinate auditor to invoke the attorney-client
privilege like subordinate investigators in non-health litigation. By utilizing
an attorney and developing protocols that allow hospitals to invoke privilege,
many inherently litigationprone situations will be internally handled to prevent
further liability without the catastrophic penalties normally handed down;
hospital systems will be able to maintain the records of their own
investigations in anticipation of litigation and will be able to defend cases
adequately against the evidence presented by the government or plaintiffs. Thus,
the general counsel will be able to ensure that the hospital's liability is
mitigated through the development of a strong compliance program that alleviates
the risks of internal investigations and lessens the harsh penalties of health
care fraud and abuse law.

   Hospitals should be treated like all other litigants. They should be able to
defend themselves and prepare a strong defense when the opportunity for costly
litigation exists. Giving the general counsel the ability to defend the system
for compliance issues will allow the system to enjoy the same attorney-client
privilege given to all other defendants that are protecting themselves from
litigation.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Civil ProcedureDiscoveryPrivileged MattersWork ProductGeneral
OverviewEvidencePrivilegesAttorney-Client PrivilegeScopePublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:





n1  See Suzanne C. Robertson, The Picture of Health, 49 TENN. B.J. 18, 26 (Oct.
2013).





n2  John B. McNeece, The Ethical Conflicts of the Hybrid General Counsel and
Chief Compliance Officer, 25 GEO. J. LEGAL ETHICS 677, 678 (2012).





n3  See Robertson, supra note 1.





n4  See, e.g., Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 15 U.S.C.A. § 7241 (2002).





n5  See generally Glenn T. Troyer et al., Governance Issues for Nonprofit
Healthcare Organizations and the Implications of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 1 IND.
HEALTH L. REV. 175 (2004).





n6  See generally Stephen M. Blank et al., Health Care Fraud, 46 AM. CRIM. L.
REV. 701 (2009).





n7  See Jim Moye, Are We Bulletproof?: A Defensive Business Strategy to Protect
Health Care Companies from False Claims Act Litigation and Corporate Integrity
Agreements, 41 U. BALT. L.F. 24, 28 (2010).





n8  See, e.g., Compliance Program: Job Description of the Chief Compliance
Office, UC DAVIS HEALTH SYSTEM (Jan. 26, 2014),
http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/compliance/program/job.html.





n9  OIG Model Compliance Program Guidance for Hospital Systems, HEALTH CARE
FRAUD AND ABUSE COMPLIANCE MANUAL, 2013 WL 6685089, § B(1) n.35 [hereinafter OIG
Guidance].





n10  Id. § A(8) n.34 (emphasizing that legal issues such as privilege and
confidentiality should be discussed with legal counsel).





n11  See, e.g., United States ex rel. Harry Barko v. Halliburton Co. et al., No.
1:05-CV-1276 (D.D.C. Mar. 6, 2014) (holding that a company subject to
regulations requiring internal control systems may not be able to invoke
attorney-client privilege if an internal investigation was conducted because of
a regulatory or corporate policy requirement instead of a discreet legal issue).





n12  See generally OIG Guidance, supra note 9.





n13  Id. §§ C, F.





n14  Id. § G(1) n.55.





n15  Id. § A(8) n.34.





n16  See Ken Blickenstaff, Strong Medicine: The Evolution of Healthcare Fraud
Enforcement, 42 ADVOC. 15, 16 (1999).





n17  OIG Guidance, supra note 9, § B(1).





n18  Id. § B(1).





n19  Id. § B(1) n.35.





n20  See id.





n21  Id. at Introduction.





n22  See id. § B(1) n.35.





n23  See Michael W. Peregrine & Gregory M. Duckett, Legal Ethics: In-House
Counsel as Chief Governance Officer, AHLA-PAPERS P06260502, §§ 1.2, 2.4 (June
26, 2005).





n24  A REVIEW OF HEALTHCARE FRAUD AND ABUSE IN AMERICA, AAOMS COMMITTEE ON
HEALTHCARE & ADVOCACY 2 (Mar. 1, 2011), available at
http://www.aaoms.org/docs/practice_mgmt/fraud_and_abuse.pdf.





n25  Id.





n26  . Press Release, U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Departments of
Justice and Health and Human Services Announce Record-Breaking Recoveries
Resulting From Joint Efforts To Combat Health Care Fraud (Feb. 11, 2013),
available at http://www.hhs.gov/news/press/2013pres/02/20130211a.html.





n27  Id.





n28  Id.





n29  Id.





n30  Id.





n31  See MICHAEL K. LOUCKS & CAROL C. LAM, PROSECUTING AND DEFENDING HEALTH CARE
FRAUD CASES 17 (2d ed. 2011).





n32  Id.





n33  David Orbuch & Robert S. Salcido, Practical Aspects to Preserving and
Protecting Attorney-Client Information When Operating a Compliance Department,
Fraud and Compliance Forum, AHLA-Papers 009290211, § I(C)(1) (2002).





n34  MODEL RULES OF PROF'L CONDUCT pmbl. (2010).





n35  See Orbuch & Salcido, supra note 33, at § I(C)(1).





n36  See generally United States v. United Shoe Mach. Corp., 110 F. Supp. 295
(D. Mass. 1953).





n37  Upjohn Co. v. United States, 449 U.S. 383, 388 (1981); see also Orbuch &
Salcido, supra note 33, at n. 7.





n38  See Orbuch & Salcido, supra note 33, at § I(A)(5).





n39  Id. at § I(B).





n40  Id.





n41  Hardy v. N.Y. News, Inc., 114 F.R.D. 633, 643 (S.D.N.Y. 1987).





n42  See Orbuch & Salcido, supra note 33, at § I(C)(1).





n43  Id.





n44  See id.





n45  See id.





n46  See id.





n47  Id.





n48  See Frontier Ref., Inc. v. Gorman-Rupp Co., 136 F.3d 695, 703-04 (10th Cir.
1998).





n49  Bank of Am., N.A. v. Terra Nova Ins. Co., 212 F.R.D. 166, 169 (S.D.N.Y.
2002) (citing United States v. Nobles, 422 U.S. 225, 238-39 (1975)).





n50  Baker v. Gen. Motors Corp., 209 F.3d 1051, 1054 (8th Cir. 2000).





n51  See, e.g., Alltmont v. United States, 177 F.2d 971, 976 (1968).





n52  See, e.g., Cal. Prac. Guide Prof. Resp. Ch. 7-C.





n53  Id.





n54  Id. (citing Kaiser Found. Hosps. v. Sup. Ct., 66 Cal. App. 4th 1217, 1228
(1998)).





n55  See Blickenstaff, supra note 16, at 15.





n56  Katheryn Ehler-Lejcher, The Expansion of Corporate Compliance: Guidance for
Health Care Entities, 25 WM. MITCHELL L. REV. 1339, 1346 (1999).





n57  See Michael P. Kenny &William R. Mitchelson, Jr., Corporate Benefits of
Properly Conducted Internal Investigations, 11 GA. ST. U. L. REV. 657, 664
(1995).





n58  See, e.g., Anti-Kickback Statutes, 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b (2010); Stark Law,
42 U.S.C. § 1395nn (2010); False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. § 3729 (2010).





n59  Ehler-Lejcher, supra note 56, at 1347 (citing 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320a-7b
(b)(1)(A), (2)(A)).





n60  Id. at 1349.





n61  Id. at 1372.





n62  Id.





n63  Id. at 1373.





n64  Id. at 1356.





n65  Ehler-Lejcher, supra note 55, at 1356.





n66  Id. at 1371.





n67  Id.





n68  See Gardner Davis & Jeff McFarland, Corporate Compliance Programs:
Protecting the Business from the Rogue Employee, FLA. B.J., January 1996, at 34,
35.





n69  42 U.S.C. 1320-7b(g) (providing that a claim that includes items or
services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a
false or fraudulent claim for the purposes of the False Claims Act).





n70  See Ehler-Lejcher, supra note 56, at 1382.





n71  Id.





n72  . FED. R. CIV. P. 26(b).





n73  See generally e.g., SCM Corp. v. Xerox Corp., 70 F.R.D. 508 (D. Conn.
1976); Duplan Corp. v. Moulinage et Retorderie de Chavanoz, 487 F.2d 480 (4th
Cir. 1973).





n74  See Kenny & Mitchelson, supra note 57, at 664.





n75  United States v. Fisher, 692 F. Supp. 488, 491 (E.D. Pa. 1988).





n76  See generally Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495 (1947) (discussing FED. R.
CIV. P. 26(b)).





n77  See Indep. Petrochem. Corp. v. Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 654 F. Supp. 1334,
1365 (D.D.C. 1986).


                              268 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Ramsay Health lays;
plans for Benowa

BYLINE: by Tracey McBean business property editor

SECTION: PROPERTY; Pg. 81

LENGTH: 439  words


THE owner of Pindara Private Hospital has bought a nearby office building as
part of a plan to extend the Benowa medical precinct.

Ramsay Health Care outlaid $5 million to acq-uire JD Bell House, at 8 Carrara
Street, in an offmarket deal.

The property is opposite the Pindara hospital grounds.

RHC state operations manager Mark Dolan said the purchase ref-lected the
company's objective of 'consolidating the medical precinct around the hospital'.

He said JD Bell House would eventually house health-oriented activities.

Mr Dolan said RHC already held the head-lease on another Carrara Street office
building which it has sub-let to medical professionals.

RHC also holds most of the strata-title suites in the three-level specialist
centre Pindara Place, which sits on a separate title next to the hospital.

Pindara Place has three day theatres and houses specialists in fields including
gynaecology, fertility, orthopedics, plastic surgery and ophthalmology.

JD Bell House was sold by Hamish Nominees, linked to Geoffrey Smith, and
Peerless Enterprises, linked to John Fradgley.

Mr Smith and Mr Fradgley are partners of Bell Legal Group which, until recently,
was a long-term occupant of part of the building.

The three-level JD Bell House sits on 2235sqm and comprises professional office
suites with basement parking.

JD Bell House was built for Bell Legal Group in 1990 and has about 1250sqm of
net lettable space.

It was named for the firm's founder, John Douglas Bell, who started the practice
in 1955 at Surfers Paradise.

Tenants include About Hearing, Archers Body Corporate and Mortgage
Administration Services.

Bell Legal Group quit the building after 16 years for a suite in a five-level
office building at 91 Upton Street, Bundall.

The group occupies two floors of the building, now known as Bell Legal Group
House, and took over a lease that has four years to run.

Pindara hospital is at present undergoing a $4 million redevelopment involving
the maternity, women's health and orthopedic wards, which account for 80 of its
more-than-200 beds.

It is expected to be complete by August.

Mr Dolan said RHC was in discussions with the city council reg-arding an
expansion of Pindara involving more beds and services and an upgrade of the car
park.

Ramsay Health Care is the largest private-hospitals operator in the country and
its portfolio comprises 70 hospitals and day-care facilities in Australia and
Indonesia.

Its Gold Coast facilities also include Short Street Day Surgery, in Southport,
and John Flynn Private Hospital. Pindara and John Flynn hospitals joined the RHC
stable in 2005 after its $1.43 billion acquisition of Affinity Health.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday

State legal adviser takes UC battering

LENGTH: 343  words


The Council of State is being asked to revise its legal interpretation which
critics say may unfairly restrict the spending of hospitals under Universal
Healthcare Coverage (UC).

Board members of the National Health Security Office (NHSO) have asked the
state's advisory arm to revise its interpretation that funds coming from the UC
only be used by hospitals in covering patients' medical costs, and not other
expenses such as water and electricity bills associated with providing
treatment.

The council issued its interpretation of the law governing the UC, which was
slammed by doctors and healthcare activists as restrictive and unfair.

They argued that such a legal interpretation could undermine the functioning of
state hospitals that need to allocate UC funds to pay for necessary daily
expenses, including utility costs.

Nimit Tienudom, a former NHSO board member, said if the interpretation were to
have legal effect, it would put many state hospitals in a dire financial
situation and destroy the UC system.

He also feared private hospitals would be discouraged from taking part in the
healthcare coverage programme.

"Such an interpretation would have disastrous consequences on both providers and
receivers of medical care under the scheme," he said.

For now, hospitals are free to spend the UC fund for their daily expenses and
the purchase of medical equipment.

The Council of State took up the legal interpretation of the UC budget and its
spending power on Nov 30 last year amid concerns, backed by the government, that
the healthcare programme's finances may not be sustainable.

The Public Health Ministry yesterday ordered a committee -- which includes
representatives of the NHSO, the Council of State, the Office of the
Auditor-General, and civil society groups -- to review laws and regulations
pertaining to the use of the UC fund.

The committee has six weeks to examine any potential problems in the fund's
disbursements and draft a solution which suits all parties, Mr Nimit said.

The findings will then be presented to the NHSO for consideration.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 2013 Houston Bar Association
                               The Houston Lawyer

                             January/February, 2013

                               The Houston Lawyer

                              50 Houston Lawyer 10

LENGTH: 1265 words

FEATURE: THE HBA/TCH MEDICAL-LEGAL PARTNERSHIP: THE HBA'S HOUSTON VOLUNTEER
LAWYERS AND TEXAS CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL JOIN FORCES TO HELP LOW INCOME FAMILIES
OVERCOME LEGAL ISSUES THAT AFFECT PATIENT HEALTH

By Michelle G. Friedberg

Michelle G. Friedberg, MPH, JD is sthe staff attorney for the Texas Children's
Hospital Medical-Legal Partnership.

TEXT:

    [*11]

   Houston is home to a world-renowned medical center with the largest medical
complex in the world. Individuals travel from near and far to receive
first-class medical treatment in our city; even so, research shows that
Houstonians continue to suffer preventable health conditions and face barriers
to health care access.

   To meet this challenge, the Houston Bar Association's Houston Volunteer
Lawyers has partnered with Houston's premiere children's hospital, Texas
Children's, to create the first medical-legal partnership in Houston. This new
program brings together lawyers, doctors and social workers to improve health
outcomes for low-income families by addressing socioeconomic and environmental
factors that affect patient health. The Texas Children's Medical-Legal
Partnership (MLP) provides free legal advice and representation to Texas
Children's patients and their families with help from pro bono attorneys and
will train health care providers at the Hospital to identify and triage legal
issues affecting their patients' health.

   The MLP is the product of a recognized trend in the United States that
patient health is affected by far more than just traditional medicine. Poverty
is one of the most impactful. The percentage of children living below the
federal poverty level is higher in Houston than the national average.  n1
Poverty has devastating effects on all stages of development, and it can lead to
food insecurity, inadequate health care, inferior housing conditions and poor
school and employment outcomes, eventually leaving lasting consequences on
overall health. Research consistently shows that health is influenced by the
"conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work and age."  n2 These
conditions, referred to as "social determinants of health," are shaped by our
physical and social environments, and they are largely responsible for the
health inequities we see in vulnerable populations.

   Health costs and outcomes are deeply connected to the social determinants of
health. To improve them, then, the provision of quality health care means
addressing a patient's social needs. Many of these social needs  n3 are in fact,
legal needs -- "an adverse social condition with a legal remedy."  n4 While the
impact of social determinants is often recognized by health care providers,
addressing those needs remains a challenge, particularly for low-income patient
families. Lawyers can play a special role in supporting the health of our
communities, and they can help alleviate and remove the social determinants of
health that lead to and exacerbate poor health.

   The right to free counsel in the United States is, minus a few exceptions,
limited to criminal cases that make up a small percentage of the legal problems
individuals and families actually face. There are some free legal services
available for low-income people with civil legal problems, but the need far
outweighs the supply. In the general population, there is approximately one
private lawyer for every 429 people; there is one legal aid lawyer for every
6,415 people living in poverty.  n5 Pro bono and reduced-fee programs for
low-income individuals and families are, thus, a critical component of the civil
legal assistance system. The medical-legal partnership model contributes to this
network by uniting local legal service providers with local healthcare
institutions to coordinate care, detect legal problems early, and leverage
scarce resources on behalf of specific, underserved patient populations.

   Unfettered access to health care will not cure intractable health issues
arising from the social determinants of health, because not every illness has a
biological cure. Lawyers can become key partners of the health care team by
addressing these legal issues, and they can train health care providers to be
mindful of the social determinants of health and the legal issues preventing
them from achieving healthy outcomes.

   For example, while there are widespread government programs and policies
designed to meet social and material needs, complex application processes and
inconsistent implementation both pose a barrier to families' access to these
programs. Often, qualified and deserving patients are denied benefits to which
they are entitled, and they need legal assistance with the appeals process to
secure access to food, disability benefits, an appropriate special education
plan,  [*12]  or accommodations at school.

   Lawyers can also intervene to address other legal needs affecting overall
health and wellness, including improving housing/living conditions, obtaining
guardianships for unrelated caregivers without the right to consent to medical
care, and securing modifications to accommodate children with physical
disabilities.

   The Texas Children's MLP is the first program of its kind in Houston, thanks
to a generous donation from Walmart, which created a successful MLP with
Arkansas Children's Hospital last year and plans to expand the benefits of MLPs
to other major pediatric hospitals nationwide. The partnership at Texas
Children's Hospital is working with social workers in five clinics within the
Hospital: Special Needs Primary Care Clinic, In-Patient Rehabilitation, Retro
Virology, Fetal Center, and Texas Children's Pediatrics (Gulfgate). The vision
of the MLP is to eventually expand the program to cover all units of Texas
Children's Hospital. Houston Volunteer Lawyers delivers free legal services to
qualified applicants by linking them with attorneys who volunteer their time on
a pro bono basis. To date, Houston Volunteer Lawyers has six Houston law firms
that have committed to be "go to" pro bono firms in this endeavor: Akin Gump,
Baker Hostetler, Bracewell & Giuliani, Fulbright & Jaworski, King & Spalding,
and Vinson & Elkins.

   The Texas Children's MLP launched on November 1, 2012, and it already has
been handling consultations and referring cases to pro bono attorneys on a
variety of legal issues. These include guardianships as pediatric patients
transition into adulthood, adoption, questions related to custody and paternity,
issues regarding habitability and living conditions, and special education cases
ranging from initial evaluation and testing to adherence to an individualized
education plan to accommodations for children with functional limitations and
increased challenges in their educational settings.

   The Texas Children's MLP is an effective allocation of scarce resources and a
true opportunity to help improve a child's quality of life. To become involved,
contact Michelle Friedberg at mgfriedb@texaschildrens.org or 832-826-7202.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCounselRight to CounselGeneral OverviewEducation
LawDiscriminationDisability DiscriminationAccommodationFamily
LawAdoptionProceduresAdoption of Adults

GRAPHIC:
PHOTO 1, Brent Benoit, president of the Houston Bar Association; PHOTO 2, Randy
Wright, executive vice president, chief operating officer, Texas Children's
Hospital; PHOTO 3, Jeff Gearhart, executive vice president and general counsel,
Walmart, Photos by Paul Kuntz, Texas Children's Hospital; ILLUSTRATION, no
caption; PHOTO 4, Lance Lightfoot, general counsel, Texas Children's Hospital;
HBA president, Brent Benoit; Alissa Rubin Gomez, executive director of the HBA's
Houston Volunteer Lawyers; PHOTO 5, Members of the boards of directors of the
Houston Bar Foundation and Houston Volunteer Lawyers at the news conference.
From left: Michelle Friedberg, John Strasburger, Thomas M. Roche, Alissa Rubin
Gomez, Bill Buck, Susan Sanchez, Norma Trusch, Barrett Reasoner, Brent Benoit,
Stewart Gagnon, Bob McAughan, and Neil Kelly.

FOOTNOTE-1:





n1  Children at Risk, Growing Up In Houston: Assessing the Quality of Life of
our Children, 20 (Robert Sanborn, Mandi Sheridan Kimball, Dawn Lew, Jennifer
Michel Solak, Diana Zarzuelo, eds., 2010), available at
http://childrenatrisk.org/research/book/.





n2  World Health Organization, Closing the Gap in a Generation: Health Equity
through Action on the Social Determinants of Health (2008), available at
http://www.who.int/social_determinants/thecommission/finalreport/en/index.html.





n3  Poverty, Health and Law: Readings and Cases for Medical-Legal Partnership,
30. (Elizabeth Tobin Tyler, Ellen Lawton, Kathleen Conroy, Megan Sandel, Barry
Zuckerman, eds., 2011).





n4  Id. at 72.





n5  Id. at 57.


                              271 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            August 2, 2006 Wednesday

Guidelines needed for life-death decisions

BYLINE: Masayuki Takata and Yoshihiko Tamura, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writers,
Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1155 words


A recent survey by The Yomiuri Shimbun showing that 56 percent of hospitals had
withheld life-prolonging treatment has illustrated that without clear guidelines
on how to handle terminally-ill patients, the important decision is left to the
discretion of the doctors in attendance.

"We've removed artificial respirators from patients before," said the deputy
director of a public hospital in the Kanto region. "We believe doctors shouldn't
keep their patients in vegetative states by continuing life support."

The director of a public hospital in the Tohoku echoed the sentiment: "Medical
treatment is about alleviating our patients' pain. Being on life support can be
painful, so we have no qualms about withholding treatment [when necessary]."

Not all medical professionals agree. "We never remove a respirator from a
patient," the director of a public hospital in Hokkaido said, "because we would
either become the subject of litigation or face a dispute with the next of kin."

The Yomiuri Shimbun survey, in which 240 hospitals from around the country gave
valid answers, showed a discrepancy in doctors' opinions on the subject of
withholding or withdrawing life-prolonging treatment and the confusion over the
issue at medical institutions.

The biggest factor in this division stems from understanding the legality of
withholding treatment from a terminal patient or removing such a patient from
life support.

Hospitals differ on legal issues

When asked about the legality of the practice, 26 percent of the respondents
said there was a legal problem with doctor-assisted suicide, while an additional
26 percent said they felt there was a legal issue, but no problem medically
speaking.

Another 20 percent, meanwhile, said they felt there was neither a legal nor a
medical problem with the practice.

Of particular interest was the answer, "As it depends on the patient, it is
difficult to say whether it is legal or not."

The majority of hospitals, which said the practice involved legal issues, cited
the problem as being the lack of regulations, such as a law, that defines when
and how a patient should be placed on life support. Most of the hospitals that
responded like this said they themselves did not withhold life support. However,
there were some individuals who said they had issues with putting a
terminally-ill patient on life support.

Hospitals that said no medical issue was involved in the practice, meanwhile,
tended to be facilities that had experience removing patients from life support
or withholding treatment.

Lack of laws trouble doctors

Only 21 of the hospitals that responded had drawn up their own guidelines on
removing patients from life support, revealing that, without a clear policy in
place, many doctors were choosing to pull the plug or withhold treatment at
their own discretion.

One such high-profile case involved a surgeon at Imizu City Hospital in Toyama
Prefecture who decided on his own to remove his patient from an artificial
respirator. Even in the Yomiuri Shimbun survey, 46 percent of hospitals said
their doctors had made similar decisions on their own.

"There needs to be a system in place that guarantees transparency for the
procedures to decide whether to place a patient on life support," said Tsubasa
Nakagawa, director of Sapporo's Jozankei Hospital and member of a Health, Labor
and Welfare investigatory committee into terminal-period treatment in 2002-2004.

Thirty-six hospitals in the survey cited the Imizu case as an impetus to
establish hospital policies on the matter within the year, or in the near
future. However, many of the respondents said they would be unable to set up
their own guidelines as long as the country had none of its own.

In Britain, Germany and the Netherlands committees of ethicists and legal
experts have been established to ensure that the procedures and diagnoses
involved in removing somebody from life support are sufficient.

Waseda University Prof. Katsunori Kai, a specialist in criminal and medical law,
said: "An ethics committee should be set up to deal with the terminal-period
issue, and we should take full advantage of it. There is also the method in
which one hospital's ethics committee could be in charge of making the decision
for other hospitals in the area."

Understanding patients' will

An important concern surrounding the issue is how it reflects on the patients
and their families.

In 1991, a doctor at Tokai University Hospital in Kanagawa Prefecture injected a
last-stage cancer patient with potassium chloride, killing the patient. The
Yokohama District Court in 1995 convicted the doctor of murder. The court said
there were three conditions on which the removal of a patient from life support
would be permitted.

One of these conditions is based on the presumption that "it is the will of the
patient or the family."

However, the survey also shows the difficulty in understanding a patient's will
in the matter.

At convalescent hospitals, where many of the elderly patients suffer from
cognitive illnesses, it is difficult to confirm a patient's wishes. "We make a
decision based on the family's wishes, but there are times when we agonize over
the huge discrepancy between the family's desire to put the patient on life
support and the reality of the patient's incurable disease," said the director
of a private hospital in the Kinki area.

When a patient has escaped death by receiving emergency treatment, but is
unlikely to recover, the assistant director of a Kanto public hospital said,
"It's terrible to ask somebody to decide whether to pull the plug on a family
member. We decide based on the atmosphere the family projects."

About 40 percent of the hospitals that have their own guidelines in place have
adopted a system in which papers are drawn up when the patient's condition is
stable that state the wishes of both the patient and family.

Hospitals want 'definite' rules

In light of the Imizu City Hospital case, the health ministry has decided to
draw up guidelines on medical treatment for patients in the terminal phase of
their diseases.

The policy will include how to obtain consent from the family and patient, as
well as the proper procedures after a decision has been reached to remove the
patient from life support--a decision based on approval from an ethics
committee.

In the survey, 72 percent of the hospitals that responded said definite rules
needed to be instituted nationwide for the purpose of gaining public consent and
providing explanations to the families concerned.

However, many respondents also said that for the framework to be most effective
for each individual patient's situation, it should not be made law, but rather a
more flexible guideline.

Medical associations, such as the Japanese Association for Acute Medicine, the
Japanese Society of Intensive Care Medicine, and the All Japan Hospital
Association--which claims about 2,100 member hospitals nationwide--also are
working on similar guidelines.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                November 8, 2005

Please let us get on with it

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 748 words


Health bosses have reacted with dismay to a legal bid to halt the downgrading of
Frenchay hospital. South Gloucestershire Council yesterday voted to seek advice
on mounting a High Court challenge to Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt's refusal
to re-examine a planned shake-up of city hospitals which would see Southmead
Hospital upgraded while Frenchay withers.

Sonia Mills, chief executive of North Bristol NHS Trust which runs both Frenchay
and Southmead hospitals, said the move could delay the work by up to two years -
and add at least £36 millon to the costs involved.

And Bristol North West MP Doug Naysmith branded the council's refusal to give up
the fight to save Frenchay as "crazy" as the legal bid was bound to fail.

Taking legal advice is likely to could cost the council up to £2,000. Taking the
case to the High Court is expected to cost £10,000 and if the council were to
lose and be ordered to pay all of the legal costs, it could be landed with a
bill of more than £100,000.

Ms Mills said the judicial review South Gloucestershire Council is seeking would
take up to 10 months.

She said: "Our timetable is deliberately designed to ensure that we are at the
front of the queue of 25 major hospital schemes in other cities throughout
England which are at a similar stage of development.

"It is very clear that schemes which are delayed and fail to attract PFI
interest have to restart their process. A six to ten-month judicial review
process is likely to lead to a delay of 12 or even 24 months." Ms Mills said
delaying the scheme would drive up costs by reducing competition among potential
contractors as they became committed to other schemes.

She said: "All of this would impact upon the scale of what could be built." Mr
Naysmith said: "As far as I know it has already been said that a judicial review
will not succeed, that the way the decision is made, it's very unlikely that
this will succeed.

"I think it's crazy that the cabinet is spending taxpayers' money on something
that will not succeed. I think it's time some of the local politicians in South
Gloucestershire stopped playing politics with something so important and decided
to have a great new hospital for South Gloucestershire and the whole of the
Bristol area." Pam Ward, Secretary of the Joint Union Committee representing
North Bristol NHS Trust staff, was also worried by the delay South
Gloucestershire Council's legal bid will cause.

She said: "We are concerned that, yet again, the process will stall. Any delay
now in the future progress of the plans could jeopardise the cost of providing
hospital services in the future. The staff believe that if the plans are stalled
now the true losers will be the residents of Bristol and South Gloucestershire
who will have to wait even longer for a new hospital." At yesterday's meeting,
the council's cabinet was told it should know in about three weeks whether it
had a strong enough legal case to challenge the Bristol Health Services Plan, a
£500 million shake-up of hospital services in the region that also includes
plans for new community facilities in Thornbury, Yate and Kingswood.

The council's three-party ruling cabinet voted by seven votes to two in favour
of seeking legal advice over a judicial review, with Labour opposing the move.

Tory group leader John Calway (Longwell Green) said: "I don't think out
residents would ever believe it if we refused to invest in what might be our
only chance of saving Frenchay.

"It seems there has been a deliberate plan in place from day one to
systematically discredit Frenchay by the NHS, right up to the Secretary of
State." Maggie Tyrrell (Thornbury South), the Lib Dems' executive member for
community care, housing and health, said: "There is overwhelming public support
for acute services at Frenchay Hospital.

"We owe it to the people of South Gloucestershire to make their opinion count."
Labour group leader Roger Hutchinson (Filton) made an impassioned plea for the
cabinet to accept that Southmead had been chosen as the site for the new acute
hospital. He said: "This is not a Frenchay versus Southmead argument any more.

"I'm aware some people in South Gloucestershire are disappointed it's not
Frenchay but that was bound to happen." The judicial review's brief would be to
decide whether the Health Secretary had been "irrational or unreasonable" in not
referring the decision to favour Southmead to an independent panel.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


                              273 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 22, 2009
                                   Edition 2

Lawyers get more than victims in NHS compensation scandal;
Taxpayers are shelling out tens of millions of pounds on 'no-win, no-fee'
claims, reports Jon Ungoed-Thomas

BYLINE: Jon Ungoed- Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 2040 words


SITTING in his office looking out on a bustling Surrey high street, Colum Smith
readily admitted last week that he is a drain on the public purse.

As a "no-win, no-fee" lawyer, he can charge the National Health Service up to
£750 an hour in successful claims for patient compensation over medical
negligence and errors.

While Smith's colleagues may toil away on family and criminal cases for legal
aid rates of about £65 an hour, a successful case for him can mean a fees
bonanza out of NHS funds.

He can bill the NHS for £375 an hour, with an "uplift" on a successful case of
up to 100%.

Last year he fought a case for a businessman wrongly diagnosed in an accident
and emergency department. Lawyers for the NHS Litigation Authority (NHSLA),
which handles compensation claims for the health service, offered £15,000. Smith
turned them down, demanding £45,000.

The authority refused his counter-offer, sparking a legal battle in which
experts were summoned, detailed statements were drawn up on the claimant's loss
of earnings and Smith pored over medical files.

The NHS lost the case - paying out £150,000 damages - and was then hit by the
bulging claims for legal costs. Smith's bill - with costs for legal experts and
an insurance premium against losing the case - came to £300,000. He says the NHS
also spent about £200,000 defending the case.

These bills, of course, ultimately fall on taxpayers, who last year spent £400m
on NHSrelated legal claims. The potential liability on outstanding negligence
claims could be as much as £12 billion of which, at prevailing rates, £6billion
could go on legal fees.

"The waste of money is absolutely phenomenal," Smith admitted last week. He says
that in about half of cases his legal costs are greater than the damages paid to
the patient: "If you were the NHS, wouldn't you make me an early offer?" He
admits that once a case is launched, the cost to the public purse rapidly starts
spiralling: "You can't control the system.

If the NHS says to me 'prove the case', I'm going to go away and do it if I can.
That's going to cost a lot of money if I succeed." Smith, a partner in McMillan
Williams Solicitors, which has eight branches in south London and Surrey, says
his fees reflect the risk of losing an important case and that his firm is well
known for its willingness to take risky claims.

The NHSLA says the fees for lawyers like Smith are out of hand. It complains
that compensation lawyers are raking in the kind of fees enjoyed by City
commercial lawyers at the height of the credit boom. It accuses the legal
profession of "cherry-picking" cases - and reaping huge rewards for relatively
little risk.

In a submission to Lord Justice Jackson, who is reviewing civil litigation
costs, it argues that no-win, no-fee contracts - known as conditional fee
arrangements (CFAs) - are "indefensibly" expensive.

"We make no suggestion that there is anything illegal or immoral in their
adoption," it said. "But they are effectively a means of claimant lawyers
virtually doubling their [rates], having cherry-picked their cases." It says the
top rate available to no-win, no-fee NHS lawyers is £804 an hour.

It is not surprising that the NHSLA is worried. Under its main scheme - the
clinical negligence scheme for trusts - about 50p in every £1 is already being
spent on legal costs. It paid damages of £264m in 2007-8 and legal costs for the
defence team and claimants of about £134m.

According to the authority's latest figures, the NHS's potential liabilities in
outstanding clinical negligence claims is nearly £12 billion. Even if only half
these claims are successful, it would mean potential legal fees of up to £3
billion.

NO-WIN, no-fee arrangements were introduced in 1995. They were designed to
improve access to the justice system for claimants who were not entitled to
legal aid - but who also could not afford the often prohibitive costs of a court
case.

The new arrangements were aggressively marketed by "ambulance-chasing" claims
firms with leaflets circulated in hospitals bearing unauthorised NHS logos. New
laws were implemented to regulate the claims companies, but there has been
mounting concern about the bonanza it has produced for lawyers.

Bertie Leigh, a senior partner at Hempsons, which defends the NHS in litigation
cases, describes many of the case files he sees as a "buccaneering attack on the
funds of the NHS". He said he advises the NHS that it should allow for the
claimants' costs under no-win, no-fee rules to be as much as four times higher
than those of the defence team.

"I don't think the principle of a CFA is wrong, but the rates are wrong and the
success fee is too high. The courts have failed to control the costs," he said.

He added that no-win, nofee lawyers were often on hourly base rates approved by
the Courts Service which could be double those of the defence lawyers. Those
fees could then be doubled again if the claim was successful. Under the scheme
the lawyers were paid no fees if they lost cases - the rationale for the
"uplift". But many lawyers have become experts at picking winners.

Phil Barnes, a clinical negligence lawyer at Anthony Collins Solicitors, based
in the West Midlands, readily admits he picks only the cases he expects to win.
"The trick is you try to get rid of the ones you know are not going to succeed,"
he said. "If I have got 10 cases, I want to make sure I have got 10 cases I am
going to win, rather than 20 and win only 10.

"Of course, you are cautious because if you fail, you fail big.

Solicitors are quite good at assessing the good cases and so the NHSLA are
paying out more in costs than they were before." In the past three years Barnes
says he has taken 11 nowin, no-fee cases against the NHSLA, winning each one:
"More firms are deciding to take these cases on conditional fee because there is
more reward.

It's a risk game. Some get pushed to the wire. Others get settled very quickly."
He said a proportion of the success fees went into a pot to fund cases that
might be lost in the future and added that lawyers also decline some claims:
"There's an awful lot I turn down because the value of the case isn't sufficient
for a claim to be brought. The costs of bringing the case are likely to be more
than the damages." Patients complain that turning away claims which may have
smaller damages or be difficult to prove is an injustice.

Tony Field, 68, who contracted MRSA, the "superbug", while being treated at
Selly Oak hospital in Birmingham for a broken leg, said he was not accepted by
no-win, no-fee lawyers because although he had a reasonable claim, it was felt
the chances of success were too slim.

Field, who now runs MRSA Support, a patients' group, said: "It should be been a
straightforward case because I got these raw, open bedsores and I believe that
was because of a lack of proper care. The problem with no-win, no-fee for a lot
of people like me is you don't get access to justice." Field says he was not
taken on because he had been cared for in two hospitals and the lawyers were
concerned about trying to prove which hospital was responsible.

For its part, the NHSLA has tried to curb the cost to the taxpayer.

In one case reported in its 2004-5 annual report, a Liverpool firm billed legal
costs of £4.4m for just one case. After negotiation, the costs were reduced to
£430,000.

Other cases have gone to the courts. The authority appealed successfully against
a claim for £78,000 costs from a legal firm that sued Barking, Havering and
Redbridge Hospitals NHS Trusts. The firm had won just £7,000 for its client.

The Medical Defence Union (MDU), which represents GPs in litigation, said it had
seen cases where the legal costs claimed were 10 times more than the damages.

Christine Tomkins, deputy chief executive of the MDU, said: "We don't want to be
defending the indefensible and there are some cases where we are keen to settle
without delay. But these firms come to us with costs incurred, a conditional fee
arrangement in place and insurance premium.

It all has to be paid by us to settle the case." In the event that the no-win,
no-fee lawyers lose, claimants can be left with a nasty sting in the tail. If
they have not taken out an insurance policy against meeting the costs of the NHS
- premiums start at £2,500 but can rise to £40,000 - they can face a bill
running into tens of thousands of pounds.

Josephine Ocloo, whose daughter Krista died of heart failure in December 1996,
pursued a claim against the Royal Brompton hospital in London.

The judge ruled there had been negligence but did not conclude it had caused the
death.

Even though Ocloo was on a no-win, no-fee arrangement with her legal team, she
was ordered to pay the defendants' costs of £120,000. These were cut to £10,000
after the case was highlighted in a newspaper.

DESPITE the criticisms of no-win, no-fee arrangements, lawyers such as Smith
insist they provide an effective means of funding cases. He said costs could be
cut if the NHSLA acted more quickly to settle cases. "A lot of these cases would
be stopped in their tracks if they put in reasonable offers earlier," he said.
He strongly denies that he "cherrypicks" cases, but concedes it is a practice
that might be deployed by other firms.

Peter Walsh, of Action against Victims of Medical Accidents, agreed that the
NHSLA could save money with earlier settlements: "Damages are being frittered
away on legal fees and we need a system where cases are settled much more
quickly and effectively." The NHSLA says it has to defend cases robustly which
it considers are without merit. It wants more control on the fees paid to
no-win, no-fee lawyers.

Personal injury lawyers deny they charge excessive fees.

Amanda Stevens, president of the Association of Personal Injury Lawyers, said
claimants' costs were scrutinised in detail by the courts. She said the high
rates reflected the risk involved in fighting cases under conditional fee
agreements.

Taking a knife to the NHS leeches, Editorial, page 20.

To see the NHSLA submission go to timesonline.co.uk/healthnews

Worst-hit trusts

Of 242 NHS trusts, 69 paid out more in legal costs than in damages to patients
in 2007-8. The top 15 with the highest legal fees were:

United Bristol Healthcare Legal fees: £1.65m Damages: £1.09m

Nottingham University Hospitals Legal fees: £1.52m Damages: £1.38m

University College London Hospitals Legal fees: £1.27m Damages: £610,000

Blackpool, Fylde and Wyre Hospitals Legal fees: £1.2m Damages: £657,000

Doncaster and Bassetlaw Hospitals Legal fees: £1.2m Damages: £1.16m

Whipps Cross University Hospital (east London) Legal fees: £1.1m Damages:
£880,000

Salford Royal Legal fees: £1.03m Damages: £521,000

Whittington Hospital (north London) Legal fees: £947,000 Damages: £717,000

Buckinghamshire Hospitals Legal fees: £946,000 Damages: £856,000

Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University Hospitals Legal fees: £881,000
Damages: £583,000

Aintree Hospitals Legal fees: £626,000 Damages: £509,000

North Cheshire Hospitals Legal fees: £607,000 Damages: £488,000

west Middlesex University Hospital Legal fees: £590,000 Damages: £545,000

Swindon and Marlborough Legal fees: £581,000 Damages: £514,000

Walsall Hospitals Legal fees: £536,000 Damages: £454,000 Source: NHSLA

No-win, no-fee deals were introduced in 1995 to open up a justice system that
favoured the poor and the very rich.

When the scheme was expanded to most civil cases three years later, Geoff Hoon,
then a junior minister, said: "The question of whether one gets one's case to
court will no longer depend on whether one can afford it, but on whether one's
case is a strong one." The 1999 Access to Justice Act allowed judges to make the
losing side pay the extra costs associated with this type of case, triggering a
boom.

These so-called New kind of justice "uplift" fees meant solicitors could charge
extra to compensate for the possibility of defeat and therefore no fee.

But the reforms gave rise to claim "farmers", whose brash TV adverts suggested
any accident victim could successfully sue for compensation, regardless of the
strength of their case.

In 2006, Lord Falconer, then lord chancellor, brought in an act to halt what he
called "a culture of fear of being sued", blamed for stopping schools organising
trips and councils opening parks.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ocloo: large legal bill
Colum Smith, a Surrey lawyer, can bill the NHS for £375 an hour - and expect a
100% 'uplift' if he wins a case

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday

Metropolis' three major hospitals run short of female MLOs

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 245

LENGTH: 399  words


,,, Three major public hospitals of Karachi -- Jinnah Postgraduate Medical
Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH) --
are facing acute shortage of female Medico Legal Officers (MLOs) as a result,
women patients and injured have to wait several hours to get examined from
female attendants, it was learned on Friday.

A senior MLO at JPMC said on anonymity that there is acute shortage of female
MLOs in Karachi's three major public sector hospitals, which had put heavy
burden on male MLOs.

He said that only two female MLOs are available in Jinnah Hospital and Civil
Hospital Karachi, out of four seats allocated for each major hospital in three
shifts, while only one lady MLOs is available in Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

He said: "MLOs's report provides the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details on an official form at the time of autopsy, which
becomes the base to fight court's case". He said MLOs could provide direction in
handling terrorism, rape and other cases.

It is unfortunate that these important vacancies could not be filled in these
major hospitals, while the departments in six hospitals are also non-functional
dut to this lethargy.

He said three major hospitals of city had the facility of MLOs like ASH, JPMC
and CHK, while medico-legal department in six other hospitals -- Lyari General
Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital
Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Qatar
Orangi Town and Sindh Government Hospital Karachi Korangi -- are non-functional
due to MLOs' shortage.

He said female MLOs' shortage had increased the burden of work on male MLOs in
major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency, existing male and female
MLOs had to work extra hours.

He said there is urgent need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and to
minimize the extra burden on male MLOs in those major hospitals.

According to a Health Department Sindh report, around 3500 postmortems are
carried out in the city every year, while 30,000 affectees are issued medico-
legal certificates in different cases during this period . These certificates
later become beneficial for victims  to seek justice through courts.

Senior MLO at CHK Dr Nisar Ali Shah, when contacted, said that few seats of
female MLOs are lying vacant in the city's major public hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           December 16, 1996, Monday

Caesarean mothers challenge legal might of judges

BYLINE: Frances Gibb

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 760 words


Women forced to undergo surgery, after secret hearings at which they have no
legal representative, want to overturn judges' traditional common law immunity
from legal action.

THE power of High Court judges to compel women to undergo surgery is to be
challenged in a ground-breaking action by two women forced to have Caesarean
sections.

The women have been granted legal aid to sue hospital authorities that were
granted emergency orders to carry out the operations. Judges from the High
Court's Family Division who have made the orders, at private hearings and
without the women being legally represented, may also face an unprecedented
legal action.

Lawyers for the mothers are preparing a challenge to the common law immunity
from legal action that judges enjoy, on the ground that they exceeded their
powers in ordering the women to be detained so that surgery could be carried
out.

There has been a series of cases in the past year in which hospitals have sought
emergency court orders, often outside normal court hours, to enable them to
conduct what they say are lifesaving Caesarean sections. The Official Solicitor
is usually involved in the hearings, but only to advise the court or to
represent the interests of the baby. He does not act for the woman.

In the latest case, Mr Justice Kirkwood granted an order for a woman to be given
a drip that enabled the hospital to carry out a Caesarean. Doctors said the
operation was needed to save the life of her unborn child. The mother, aged 20,
refused to have the drip because she had a phobia of needles, but she has since
thanked the hospital for its actions.

One of the women granted legal aid is Fahima Chowdhury, who was forced to give
birth by Caesarean to a boy, Mahbubur, at Birch Hill Hospital, Rochdale. She had
painful after-effects from a previous Caesarean and said that she would rather
die than have another.

Rochdale Healthcare NHS Trust applied for a court order three days into labour
in June, believing that her Caesarean scar was at risk of rupturing, putting her
and the baby's life at risk. The order was granted by Mr Justice Johnson, but
Mrs Chowdhury then consented to the Caesarean. She said in a newspaper: "There
were five doctors around my bed all telling me that I would die and so would my
baby if I didn't have a Caesarean." The hospital said that it had acted properly
and would do the same again if life were at risk.

The second mother in the legal action is a professional woman who does not want
to be named. She was detained in hospital in April under the Mental Health Act
1983 when eight months pregnant and suffering from pre-eclampsia. The hospital
authorities obtained a court order without her being legally represented and she
underwent a Caesarean against her wishes.

Beverley Beech, of the Association for Improvements in the Maternity Services,
said: "It is outrageous that doctors should be overruling the wishes of patients
in these cases. They say that lives are at risk but that is by no means certain.
There have been a number of cases in the United States where women have
contested these orders and gone on to give birth without the need for a
Caesarean."

It is not possible to say how many cases there have been because of the secrecy
of the orders. Among those that have come to light are a second order granted in
June by Mr Justice Johnson to Norfolk and Norwich Healthcare NHS Trust, where
the judge held that the woman was not able to weigh up information in order to
make an informed decision. Some lawyers said that the order had effectively
defined pregnant women as incompetent. Tameside and Glossop Acute Services NHS
Trust was granted an order by Mr Justice Wall, who held that a Caesarean was
treatment for a mental disorder under the Mental Health Act.

Richard Stein, of the London solicitors Leigh Day & Co, is collating cases of
women ordered to have Caesareans. With Barbara Hewson, a barrister, he is
considering challenging the judges through judicial review or, ultimately, in
the European Court of Human Rights. The action would be brought on the basis
that the judges had "falsely imprisoned" the women "without show of right", as
the law holds, or parliamentary authority. Alternatively, they could be sued for
trespass.

Mr Stein said: "It is worrying that such an important public policy development
is happening by stealth." Such orders should be publicly debated, not brought in
"late on Friday afternoons, in private, with the threat of a dead baby hanging
over the judge".


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited


                              276 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The New Nation (Bangladesh)

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

Salahuddin shifted to another hospital

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: Dhaka


Dhaka, May 21 -- BNP leader Salahuddin Ahmed has been shifted to another
hospital for better treatment.Cardiologist Dr GK Goswami, who had been attending
Salahuddin at Shillong Civil Hospital, said that the BNP leader was shifted to
North East Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences
[NEIGRIHMS] hospital on Wednesday. "A stone has been found in his kidney and it
requires more medical examinations facilities which are not available in the
civil hospital. The medical board formed for Salahuddin's treatment has
recommended his shifting to NEIGRIHMS hospital," he said.

Official sources said, the BNP leader was admitted to the NEIGRIHMS hospital
around 5:30pm [BD Local Time].Hasina Ahmed, wife of the BNP leader, met him at
the hospital for the third consecutive day yesterday. Reiterating her desire to
take Salahuddin to Singapore for better treatment, she said that they are giving
priority to his treatment before dealing with the legal procedures.Salahuddin
while coming out of the Shillong Civil Hospital said, "I like to thank Indian
government and Shillong authorities for arranging my better treatment..I urge my
countrymen to pray for my early recovery." The authorities of Shillong Civil
Hospital earlier on Tuesday handed over the medical reports of Salahuddin to the
police.Joint Director of Shillong Civil Hospital Dr Razen in his report said
that Salahuddin had been suffering from heart and kidney diseases, and also
developed fresh urological symptoms.Meanwhile, the legal procedures for
Salauddin's return are now hanging as he could not be produced before the court
for not getting final report from the doctors. His family is also suffering from
indecision about the legal proceedings.However, sources said senior advocate of
High Court of Meghalaya SP Mahanta would take up the case in the court when
Salahuddin is produced. Salahuddin's wife yesterday met SP Mahanta at his
residence to discuss the legal matter.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The New Nation. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The New Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            January 29, 2016 Friday

Lawyers point to hospital dissent

BYLINE: by BEN SCHMITT

LENGTH: 625 words


Allegheny Health Network and Highmark Health are gearing up for a legal fight to
halt a proposed UPMC hospital less than a mile from one of their prized Pleasant
Hills properties.

AHN's Jefferson Hospital retained attorneys from Pittsburgh's Marcus & Shapira
law firm to explore legal strategies to oppose construction of a
300,000-square-foot hospital on 80 acres off Route 51.

The attorneys are recruiting Pleasant Hills residents to join the opposition,
free of legal costs.

"Not surprisingly, UPMC now faces a groundswell of opposition from individuals
who reject the idea that it could simply bulldoze the valley behind their homes
and fundamentally destroy the fabric of a residential neighborhood," attorney
Jonathan Marcus said in a statement Thursday. "The development would include a
helipad and a massive parking lot."

Dan Laurent, an AHN spokesman, did not divulge a potential legal strategy.

UPMC officials maintain the proposed hospital, to be called UPMC South, would
improve access to care and decrease costs for patients who live in the area.

"Competition generates better care at better prices, and people in the Route 51
corridor want the ability to be able to choose UPMC's high-quality care," UPMC
spokesman Paul Wood said.

On Tuesday, lawyers from Marcus' firm distributed letters to residents at a
Pleasant Hills Zoning Board meeting. Officials postponed the hearing because of
an overflow crowd of about 150 residents. UPMC is challenging the zoning code,
which prohibits a medical facility at the site under current provisions.

"As soon as the meeting on Tuesday was adjourned, our attorneys were approached
by dozens of objectors seeking representation," Jefferson Hospital CEO Louise
Urban said in a statement. "We understand there are many more who tried to
attend the meeting but could not even access the building."

Marcus, the attorney, wrote in the letter to residents that the law firm "will
represent you to the best of our ability in the matter, which involves your
objection to a proposal to build a hospital near your house, but can guarantee
no result."

The letter says "all costs and fees associated with our representation will be
paid by others."

Urban said Jefferson and parent company Highmark Health have invested more than
$100 million in enhancements in the past three to four years. She said a large
hospital with a helipad would disrupt the neighborhood's tranquil atmosphere.

"Some objectors may choose to pay their own legal expenses or retain separate
counsel, but they should know Jefferson Hospital stands with the residents of
Pleasant Hills," Urban said. "We have a common interest in doing what is best
for the community and welcome those citizens who wish to be represented with us
in voicing opposition to UPMC's plans."

Marcus emailed the Tribune-Review statements from several residents opposing the
hospital.

"I'm just a mom that built my dream house," said Jamie Khalil, 34, of Robinson
Drive. "Now there's going to be a hospital in the backyard? I left the city to
escape that urbanization and come to the suburbs to raise my kids. And now this?
I am absolutely grateful that Jefferson Hospital is supporting my objection
because I feel like decisions were already made for us by this monopoly giant
UPMC."

Stephen Foreman, an associate professor of health care administration at Robert
Morris University, said Highmark may try to argue in legal terms that building a
hospital in Jefferson's vicinity diminishes competition.

"Proving that may be pretty difficult," he said. "On its surface, it looks like
competition, even though I personally believe it is designed to take Jefferson
out."

Ben Schmitt is a Tribune-Review staff writer. Reach him at 412-320-7991 or
bschmitt@tribweb.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

NHS 'fee' probe

BYLINE: Alison Dayani

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 267 words


THE NHS has paid out more than pounds 48 million on behalf of West Midlands
hospitals in one year, following clinical negligence cases brought by patients.

But only pounds 31 million went to patients with pounds 17 million on legal
fees.

Ministers said they were "concerned" about the amount of NHS money going to the
legal profession, and would publish proposals to change the law.

The trust with the highest payments was Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Trust,
which runs Russells Hall Hospital in Dudley. Cases against the trust led to
pay-outs of more than pounds 9 million, of which pounds 7.5 million went to
patients.

Claims against Heart of England NHS Trust, which runs Good Hope and Heartlands
hospitals as well as Solihull Hospital, came to pounds 8.4 million, of which
pounds 5.6 million went to patients.

Payments are made by the NHS Litigation Authority, which provides insurance to
health trusts. The figures show pounds 48.4 million was paid out in 2008-9 for
hospitals and primary care trusts in the West Midlands pounds 5.3 million on
defence costs but pounds 11.6 million on legal fees claimed by patients bringing
cases.

Andrew Mitchell MP (Con, Sutton Coldfield) said: "We need a fair system for
patients who have received negligent treatment. But, instead, we have a deeply
regrettable system which incurs vast legal costs for NHS trusts involved in
legal battles."

A spokesman for the NHS Litigation Authority said: "The defence costs are
incurred by lawyers employed by us. They are doing pretty much the same thing as
the claimant's legal team but often charge much more."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Guardian(London)

                        July 23, 2017 Sunday 7:01 PM GMT

Charlie Gard's parents condemn abuse levelled at hospital staff;
Couple say they have also faced backlash over legal case, after hospital reveals
staff and patients have been threatened

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: UK NEWS; Version:1

LENGTH: 514 words


The parents of critically ill baby Charlie Gard have condemned the abuse and
death threats levelled at doctors and hospital staff where he is being treated,
but said they have also faced an online backlash.

Connie Yates and Chris Gard, who have been involved in a lengthy legal battle
over their son's treatment, said they have faced online abuse after Great Ormond
Street hospital (Gosh) revealed the extent of the threats its staff and patients
had faced on Saturday.

Speaking on Sunday, Yates said she and Gard "do not and have not ever condoned
any threatening or abusive remarks" towards hospital staff. She added that the
couple had also faced a backlash.

Before a key week in the legal case regarding Charlie, Yates said she wished the
hospital had "asked the public not to say anything hurtful to us as well as
their doctors and other members of staff".

She told Sky: "Chris and I are just ordinary parents with a very sick baby and
we simply have his best interests at heart.

"Despite conflicting issues, we have always had the utmost respect for all the
staff who work tirelessly at Great Ormond Street hospital and the very difficult
jobs they do every day."

The case has attracted attention from around the world. On Sunday a small group
of about 20 activists supporting the couple held a press conference and a prayer
vigil outside the high court in London.

They condemned the abuse of doctors. Medical staff have been bombarded with
thousands of violent threats and abuse over the case.

Hospital employees have faced abuse in the street and families visiting their
sick children had also been "harassed and discomfited", said the chair of Gosh
staff.

On Friday Charlie's father shouted "evil" after a lawyer representing the
hospital told the high court that a new scan on Charlie made for "sad reading".

Yates and Gard were hoping the scan would support their case that, contrary to
what doctors at the hospital say, their son is not brain damaged and would be
receptive to experimental treatment in the US. The court heard that they had not
yet seen the report.

The the protracted legal battle between Charlie's parents and Gosh centres
around the hospital's role in the treatment of the infant. Doctors are seeking
permission to turn off his life-support machine.

Charlie's parents have asked judges to rule that the son, who suffers from a
rare genetic condition and has brain damage, should be allowed to undergo a
therapy trial in New York.

Doctors at Gosh say the therapy is experimental and will not help. They say life
support treatment should stop and Charlie should be allowed to die with dignity.

The child's parents have already lost battles in the high court, court of appeal
and supreme court. They have also failed to persuade the European court of human
rights to intervene.

But the couple say there is new evidence and have asked Mr Justice Francis, who
in April ruled in favour of Gosh, to change his mind.

Francis said he would not rerun the case but would consider any "new material".

The case continues at the high court on Monday and is due to last for two days.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2017 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 17, 1994

Legal advice taken in bid to head off hospital closure

BYLINE: Bill Caven

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words


LEGAL action may be taken to prevent the closure of a hospital which provides
respite care facilities for mentally and physically handicapped children.

A group of parents whose youngsters attend Strathblane Children's Home Hospital
have sought legal advice, fearing that Greater Glasgow Health Board will press
ahead with its plan to close the unit this summer.

The health board is expected to announce the closure today despite widespread
opposition by parents, Greater Glasgow Health Council, and the former Scottish
Health Minister, Mr Michael Forsyth.

The board proposes that child respite care facilities be provided at Scotland's
Family Resource Centre in Pollokshields, Glasgow.

The final decision, however, will rest with the Scottish Secretary, Mr Ian Lang.

Parents claimed yesterday that closure of the hospital would be a "recipe for
disaster". They said there were not enough alternative beds or trained staff to
cope with the enormous demands.

The group confirmed that it was prepared to begin legal proceedings in an
attempt to keep open the 24-bedded unit at Strathblane.

A parent said: "The whole thing is complete madness and that is why several of
us have taken legal advice should the health board press ahead with its plan.

"The facilities and staff at Strathblane are trained to cope with the many
problems which arise when looking after children who are often severely mentally
and physically handicapped.

"Many of the parents have had a look at the alternative facilities being
suggested but they are poor in comparison. For a start, the children's beds are
upstairs which is crazy when you consider most of the youngsters are in
wheelchairs. What happens if there is a fire?"

He said many of the youngsters suffered from respiratory difficulties which
would be exacerbated by staying in a city environment rather than enjoying
country air.

The closure proposal has also attracted criticism from the local health council,
which accused the health board of deliberately running down the hospital.

The council said: "It is understood that during 1993 Strathblane Hospital
received a number of calls from individual parents and a number of social work
offices

requesting weekend, emergency, and holiday respite care services.

"The requests for assistance were refused in line with the instructions from the
Royal Hospital for Sick Children. This action has a number of serious
consequences."

It described the argument that the hospital was underused as a "sham".

Criticism was also expressed over claims that Strathblane required "significant
investment to bring it up to a more suitable standard". The council argued that
no financial breakdown was provided to indicate the amounts required.

Concern was also expressed about an alleged lack of emergency respite cover at
the resource centre in Pollokshields. It was claimed that only one bed out of
seven would be provided.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


                              281 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday
                               N-j Final Edition

Judge OKs deal to sever ties

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 677  words

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH


DAYTONA BEACH -- An agreement toBert Fish Medical Center's yearlong merger with
Adventist Health System received approval Friday from the circuit judge that
ordered the partnership to end.

Friday's approval clears the way for the New Smyrna Beach hospital to return to
public control, under the Southeast Volusia Hospital District board's oversight,
on July 1. That's exactly one year after the partnership between the public
hospital and the nonprofit health care giant became effective.

The court-ordered divorce inked Friday was the result of a lawsuit that was
brought against the partnership. The suit was filed because the merger was the
result of 21 meetings over 16 months that were closed to the public. Judge
Richard Graham found those meetings violated the state Sunshine Law in a way
that couldn't be cured.

The judge said he was satisfied after reading the 129-page agreement detailing
how the deal would be voided with the least possible disruption at the hospital,
which has 600 employees and 112 beds. "I'm not going to tell you I understand
all of it," Judge Graham said of the agreement. "But . . . the order has been
complied with fully."

Friday's 15-minute hearing at City Island courthouse cleared the final hurdle
and will return the hospital to the state it was in one year ago. But the next
chapter for the public hospital has pressing questions for the seven-member
hospital board, which includes five new members seated in the last month.

Among the questions are how millions of dollars in legal fees, related to the
failed merger, will affect the district's ability to pay for indigent care at
the hospital. And experts say they believe Bert Fish may need another partner to
survive the market forces buffeting independent hospitals.

Financial realities have pushed more and more standalone hospitals to become
part of a larger system. The situation is mirrored all over the country, as
hospitals try to gain efficiencies that are realized when they can make larger
orders for medicine and supplies, said Aaron Liberman, a professor of health
services administration at the University of Central Florida.

Both of Bert Fish's spurned suitors in the partnership -- public Halifax Health
and for-profit Health Management Associates -- have said they are still
interested in being Bert Fish's partner. A representative for Adventist Health
did not respond this week to a question of whether the Orlando-based nonprofit
would make another bid for Bert Fish.

Meanwhile, the district must cope with millions of dollars in legal fees that
weren't envisioned when it drew up the current year's $17.2 million budget. This
week, lawyers for the Bert Fish Foundation, which sued to stop the merger, filed
for reimbursement of its legal fees and costs, totaling nearly $1 million.
Halifax Health said it will not seek reimbursement for the $271,806 it spent for
the time of one lawyer who helped in the effort.

Judge Graham said he will have a hearing if mediation efforts fail to come to
agreement on those claims.

Already, $2.5 million worth of legal and administrative fees from the failed
merger have meant the district will be behind in its payments for indigent care
at the hospital, board members have been told. The board will begin figuring out
next month how that will affect the hospital tax rate, which already is the
highest in the state.

Indigent care at the hospital is supported by a tax on property owners in
Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of Port Orange.

The district has hired a lawyer to try to recover the legal fees and other
damages in a malpractice suit against its former, longtime attorney who advised
them to close the merger talks.

Walking out of the court hearing Friday, district Board Chairwoman Jackie
Herchek said she is working on getting up to speed on the hospital's finances.

I spoke with the (Bert Fish) chief financial officer and he assured me the
hospital is solvent," she said.

Asked about future finances and if the district needs to seek another merger,
she said, "I need to look at the budget figures."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              282 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                   September 3, 1997 Wednesday Final Edition

Orthopedic hospital drops legal battle

SOURCE: Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. F10

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


he Orthopedic and Arthritic Hospital has suspended its legal challenge of a
closure order issued by the Health Services Restructuring Commission.

The hospital is following the lead of Women's College Hospital, which dropped
its legal action in favour of negotiations last week.

The two hospitals, along with Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, have been
ordered to merge under the umbrella of the Bayview Hospital Corp.

Both have received clarification from the commission that they may remain as
public hospitals with control over their speciality programs, albeit under the
Bayview umbrella.

Both hospitals say if negotiations are not successful, they will resume court
action.

Two other Toronto hospitals -- Doctors and Wellesley-Central -- completed their
submissions last Friday. The court has reserved decision.

The Health Services Restructuring Commission -- a group of doctors, academic
health-science professionals, hospital administrators, former hospital board
members and other experts, were appointed by the province to redesign Ontario's
health system.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 1997 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              283 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           October 28, 1987 Wednesday

Wider advocacy plan for mentally ill urged

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 539 words


BY  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
 The Globe and Mail
  Ontario's advocacy program for psychiatric patients should be expanded
to include patients in private or teaching hospitals, a report to the
Ministry of Health recommends.

Advocates acting on behalf of psychiatric patients to enforce their
legal rights should be appointed to the Clarke Institute of Psychiatry in
Toronto and the three other private hospitals for the mentally ill, the
report recommends.

The 5,000 patients hospitalized annually at the Clarke, the Royal
Ottawa Hospital, the Homewood Sanatorium in Guelph and the Sudbury Algoma
Hospital are not covered under the advocacy program.

The report also urges the advocacy program be transferred out of the
health ministry, to remove a perception the Government is interfering with
the independence of the advocates.

The recommendations are made in a lengthy evaluation of the provincial
Government's psychiatric patient advocacy program, set up in 1982 to
protect the legal rights of the 12,000 patients hospitalized annually in
the province's 10 psychiatric hospitals, which include the Queen Street
Mental Health Centre in Toronto.

Each hospital has at least one full-time advocate - often with legal or
social work training - who is paid by the province to visit wards, field
patient complaints and run interference on their behalf with the medical
staff.

Advocates deal with complaints ranging from tampered mail to refusal of
medication. Although many psychiatrists at the hospitals are lukewarm to
the advocates - seeing the office as a challenge to their authority - many
patients credit the advocates with informing them of their rights under
mental health law.

The role of advocate is particularly important to protect the rights of
patients committed against their will, who want to appeal their committal
to a review board. According to the evaluation report, 19 per cent of
patients at the four private hospitals last year were involuntary
admissions.

Health ministry figures show that almost one-fifth of 1,167 admissions
last year to the Clarke Institute were involuntary.

David Baker, a lawyer with the Advocacy Resource Centre for the
Handicapped, which has represented psychiatric patients, agrees that
advocates are necessary in the private psychiatric hospitals.

"There are probably more legal issues that arise at the Clarke
Institute because of the esoteric and experimental treatments they do,
raising the issue of whether some patients are giving sufficient valid
consent," Mr. Baker said. "The Clarke is the leading edge of psychiatry in
this province and it seems appropriate that the psychiatrists trained
there should be working with advocates."

A spokesman for the Clarke said the institute is considering setting up
its own advocacy program. Currently, patients with complaints about
treatment procedures or admission are referred to the public relations
department.

Mary Beth Valentine, head of Ontario's patient advocate program, said
there has "always been a great deal of concern" about the potential for
conflict between the Government and the advocates. If the program is
transferred out of the health ministry, she said, it should be placed
under the jurisdiction of an expanded ombudsman's committee rather than
the Attorney-General's office.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1987 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                 August 8, 1997

Mother urged to sue over birth damage; Staff 'ignored Caesarean plea'

BYLINE: RHONDA LAM WAN

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 680 words


The parents of a baby who suffered brain damage after complications during birth
have been advised to take legal action against Queen Elizabeth Hospital where he
was born.

The mother claims medical staff ignored her request for a Caesarean section
after she began suffering from severe pain - worse than she had encountered in
the delivery of her first child.

Two or three hours later, while she was still in labour, she was told the baby
had only a faint heartbeat and immediate surgery was necessary.

The 3.6 kilogram boy was finally born by Caesarean section but he suffered from
temporary asphyxia during the birth, leading to brain damage.

Doctors also removed the mother's uterus after it was ruptured during the
operation, making it impossible for her to have another child.

A Queen Elizabeth Hospital spokesman said staff were investigating the case.

But ousted legislator Leung Yiu-chung, who has been helping parents of five
other babies born with brain damage, said neither the hospital nor the Hospital
Authority would admit negligence.

"The patient's medical record is prepared by the doctor and he will not write
anything that is unfavourable to himself," he said.

Mr Leung said medical records from the five previous cases did not reveal any
faults on the part of medical staff. The Legal Aid Department approved all five
applications for assistance in legal action for compensation from the Princess
Margaret Hospital.

"The parents should take legal action immediately. It's useless to rely on the
hospital or the authority," he said.

A spokesman confirmed the authority had received a complaint last week from a
woman who had given birth on July 25.

Mr Leung said doctors were rejecting mothers' requests for Caesarean sections
too easily because they were over-confident.

"Of course, we cannot rule out sudden changes during labour but better medical
care should be given in cases where the mother suffers from unusual labour
pains. And doctors should respect a mother's own feelings," he said.

The authority spokesman said investigators would interview staff involved and
would be responsible to the doctor's superiors. The complainant could appeal to
the authority's independent Public Complaints Committee if she was unhappy with
the results, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1997 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              285 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                 August 8, 1997

Mother urged to sue over birth damage; Staff 'ignored Caesarean plea'

BYLINE: RHONDA LAM WAN

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 387 words


The parents of a baby who suffered brain damage after complications during birth
have been advised to take legal action against Queen Elizabeth Hospital where he
was born.

The mother claims medical staff ignored her request for a Caesarean section
after she began suffering from severe pain - worse than she had encountered in
the delivery of her first child.

Two or three hours later, while she was still in labour, she was told the baby
had only a faint heartbeat and immediate surgery was necessary.

The 3.6 kilogram boy was finally born by Caesarean section but he suffered from
temporary asphyxia during the birth, leading to brain damage.

Doctors also removed the mother's uterus after it was ruptured during the
operation, making it impossible for her to have another child.

A Queen Elizabeth Hospital spokesman said staff were investigating the case.

But ousted legislator Leung Yiu-chung, who has been helping parents of five
other babies born with brain damage, said neither the hospital nor the Hospital
Authority would admit negligence.

"The patient's medical record is prepared by the doctor and he will not write
anything that is unfavourable to himself," he said.

Mr Leung said medical records from the five previous cases did not reveal any
faults on the part of medical staff. The Legal Aid Department approved all five
applications for assistance in legal action for compensation from the Princess
Margaret Hospital.

"The parents should take legal action immediately. It's useless to rely on the
hospital or the authority," he said.

A spokesman confirmed the authority had received a complaint last week from a
woman who had given birth on July 25.

Mr Leung said doctors were rejecting mothers' requests for Caesarean sections
too easily because they were over-confident.

"Of course, we cannot rule out sudden changes during labour but better medical
care should be given in cases where the mother suffers from unusual labour
pains. And doctors should respect a mother's own feelings," he said.

The authority spokesman said investigators would interview staff involved and
would be responsible to the doctor's superiors. The complainant could appeal to
the authority's independent Public Complaints Committee if she was unhappy with
the results, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1997 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              286 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                January 7, 2000

Doctors to seek legal advice on work hours

BYLINE: ELLA LEE

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 312 words


Doctors in public hospitals are to seek legal advice on how to press the
Hospital Authority for a cut in working hours.

The move follows a survey by the Public Doctors' Association which revealed
junior medics had to work almost 100 hours a week, medical officers 70 hours and
senior doctors and consultants 60 hours.

Yesterday the South China Morning Post revealed some medics did not take off a
single day in a month. Doctors warned patient care was being compromised as they
became exhausted.

Association vice-president Dr Leung Ka-lau said yesterday it would soon seek
advice in preparation for a possible legal battle with the authority.

Hospital chiefs have countered the doctors' claims by saying on-call time should
not be regarded as normal working hours.

Dr Leung said some of his colleagues had been stocking up shift records for
years as evidence.

"It's a very old problem, so why doesn't the authority do something about it?
The authority should recognise our on-call time as normal work.

"Eventually, we hope a reasonable shift system can be stated clearly in law."

Some departments require doctors to stay in hospitals while on call.

Dr Leung said the association would cite the case of a senior correctional
services officer who claimed unfair treatment on overtime.

In October 1998, chief officer Shau Lin-chi won almost seven months' paid leave
after a court challenge to the Government's overtime policy. The Government has
appealed against the ruling.

A spokesman for the Patients' Rights Association, Lilian Lau Sau-han, urged the
authority to make doctors' working hours more reasonable.

"What kind of services can we expect if they are deprived of sleep? Sometimes we
want to blame doctors for their lack of response to patients, but actually it's
not their fault, they are just too tired," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2000 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              287 of 993 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2017 LexisNexis, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.,
                              All Rights Reserved
                     LexisNexis® Corporate Affiliations[TM]

                                August 28, 2017

                        Children's Medical Center Dallas

                            1935 Medical District Dr
                               Dallas,  TX 75235
                                 United States


MSA: 19100 - Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (214) 456-7000
FAX: (214) 456-5301
URL: www.childrens.com
E-MAIL: mediarelations@childrens.com

FACEBOOK: www.facebook.com/ChildrensMedicalCenter
TWITTER: www.twitter.com/ChildrensTheOne

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY IDENTIFIERS * * * * * * * * * *
DCA NUMBER: 2210922

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
LEGAL STATUS: PRIVATE
EMPLOYEES:
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES:  1,000

IMPORT:  NO
EXPORT:  NO

* * * * * * * * * * CORPORATE STRUCTURE * * * * * * * * * *

CORPORATE HIERARCHY

* * * * * * * * * * EXECUTIVES * * * * * * * * * *

OFFICER             TITLE TYPE          ROLE(S)             EMAIL/SOCIAL MEDIA
Mary Stowe, Chief   Executive           Officer             LINKEDIN:
Nursing Officer                                             www.linkedin.com/pu
                                                            b/mary-stowe/1a/648
                                                            /6b0
Lawrence L. Foust,  Executive           Executive Vice
Chief Legal                             President
Officer, Gen                            General/Corporate
Counsel & Exec VP-                      Counsel
Legal Svcs                              Chief Legal Officer
David Eager, CFO &  Executive           Executive Vice
Exec VP                                 President
                                        Chief Financial
                                        Officer
Peter W. Roberts,   Executive           President
Pres
W. Robert Morrow,   Executive           President
Pres & Chief
Clinical Officer
Christopher J.      Executive           President
Durovich, Pres &                        Chief Executive
CEO                                     Officer
Kern Wildenthal,    Executive           Executive Vice
Pres & Exec VP                          President
                                        President

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *
Children's Medical Center Dallas is based in Dallas, TX. It is a pediatric
hospital. The hospital offers specialized treatment in areas such as heart
disease, endocrinology, and cystic fibrosis. It also has facilities in Plano and
Southlake.

INDUSTRY TYPE: Children's Hospital Owner & Operator

* * * * * * * * * * MARKET AND INDUSTRY * * * * * * * * * *
NAICS CODES:
622310 - Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals
SIC CODES:
8069 - Specialty Hospitals, Except Psychiatric (except childrens and substance
abuse hospitals)
PRODUCTS: CHILDREN'SHEALTH

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

SALES:  USD 900,000,000 - USD 999,999,999

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017


                              288 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                            September 4, 2015 Friday

Three major hospitals in city run short of female MLOs

LENGTH: 398  words


Three major public hospitals of Karachi  Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre
(JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH)  are
facing acute shortage of female medico legal officers (MLOs), so the women
patients and the injured have to wait several hours to get themselves examined
by the female attendants, it was learnt on Friday.

A senior MLO at JPMC said on anonymity that there was acute shortage of female
MLOs in Karachi's three major public sector hospitals which had put heavy burden
on male MLOs.

He said only two female MLOs were available in Jinnah Hospital and Civil
Hospital Karachi, out of four seats allocated for each major hospital in three
shifts, while only one lady MLO was available in Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

He said: The MLOs's report provides the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details on an official form at the time of autopsy which
becomes the base to fight court's case". He said the MLOs could provide
direction in handling terrorism, rape and other cases.

It is unfortunate that these important vacancies could not be filled in these
major hospitals, while the departments in six hospitals were also non-functional
due to this lethargy. He said three major hospitals of city had the facility of
MLOs like ASH, JPMC and CHK, while medico-legal department in six other
hospitals  Lyari GeneralHospital, Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh
Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad,
SindhGovernmentHospitalQatarOrangiTown and Sindh Government Hospital Karachi
Korangi  are non-functional due to MLOs' shortage.

He said female MLOs' shortage had increased the burden of work on male MLOs in
major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency, existing male and female
MLOs had to work extra hours.

He said there was urgent need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and
to minimise the extra burden on male MLOs in those major hospitals.

According to a health department report, around 3,500 postmortems are carried
out in the city every year, while 30,000 affectees are issued medico-legal
certificates in different cases during this period. These certificates later
become beneficial for victims to seek justice through courts. Senior MLO at CHK
Dr Nisar Ali Shah, when contacted, said that few seats of female MLOs were lying
vacant in the city's major public hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Broward Hospitals Fight Planned Plantation General Move

LENGTH: 328  words


Broward County hospitals have launched two legal challenges to try to block a
project that involves Plantation General Hospital moving near the campus of Nova
Southeastern University.
The state Agency for Health Care Administration last month gave preliminary
approval to what is known as a certificate of need for the 200-bed hospital
project in Davie. But Memorial Healthcare System and Cleveland Clinic Hospital,
which operate hospitals in the area, filed challenges that were sent to an
administrative law judge last week.


The challenges, which were consolidated Monday by Judge W. David Watkins,
contend that state approval for the new Plantation General hospital would lead
to an unnecessary duplication of services, reduce the numbers of patients at the
existing hospitals and create difficulties in properly staffing the hospitals.
Memorial Healthcare System operates five hospitals in the area, while Cleveland
Clinic operates a hospital in Weston, according to the filings.
The (Plantation General) proposal not only contemplates a new hospital facility
that will provide the same services currently available, to a large extent, at
the current (Plantation General) hospital, but it also contemplates a new,
expanded patient population service area, along with an alleged emphasis on
medical research and medical education, Cleveland Clinic attorneys wrote in
their challenge.
Plantation General is part of the HCA health-care chain. In a statement posted
on the hospital's website, Michael Joseph, HCA East Florida Division president,
touted the project.
The new state-of-the-art facility will enhance the level of care we will be able
to provide, Joseph said. Our collaboration with Nova Southeastern University
will elevate the level of services we can offer by integrating a research and
academic component into our scope of care to patients. This relocation will
enhance geographic access to the facility from all of South Florida. 2014 Legal
Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

Karachi's major hospitals face lady MLOs shortage

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 154

LENGTH: 290  words


Three major public hospitals of Karachi, including Jinnah Postgraduate Medical
Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH),
are facing acute shortage of female medico-legal officers (MLOs); therefore, the
women victims have to wait several hours to get examined from female attendants.

A senior Medic-Legal Officer at Civil Hospital Karachi told that currently,
there were five working strengths of lady MLOs in three major hospitals out of
which only three were available for duties as one was on leave while another was
suffering from cancer. He said currently only three female MLOs were available
in Jinnah Hospital, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

He said MLO's report containing the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details compiled in an official form at the time of autopsy
provides the basis for a court's case, carrying an impact on the final decision.
But unfortunately these important vaccines are left vacant in major hospitals.

The official said the shortage of female MLOs had increased the burden of work
in male MLOs in major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency, the male
and female MLOs have to work extra hours against their duty hours. He said there
was urgent need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and also to
minimize the extra burden om male MLOs.

Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz Ahmed Khokhar, said   there were nine sanctioned
posts of lady MLOs out of them only five were available. He said: One lady MLO
is on leave and another is suffering from cancer thus there is only three lady
MLOs in major hospitals.

He said number of lady medico-legal officers should be enhanced keeping the
current population and crime rate.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           November 17, 1990 Saturday

INQUIRY BILLS HIT NURSES

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: HAMMOND P

LENGTH: 279 words


Inquiry bills hit nurses NURSES have paid $190,000 so far to defend themselves
in the Ward 10B inquiry and now some face legal fees when an inquiry into
Maryborough Hospital starts. The Queensland Nurses Union recently decided to add
a $5 legal defence fee to its membership charge. QNU administrator Ms Gay
Hawksworth said incidental costs so far totalled $37,493 for the 14-week
Townsville Ward 10B psychiatric unit inquiry. Legal costs have been put at more
than $150,000. ""A legal precedent was set by the State Government when it paid
the legal representation of police officers in the Fitzgerald inquiry," she
said. Yet two requests to the State Health Minister, Mr McElligott, for the
Government to pay nurses' legal costs had failed, she said. ""If that style of
psychiatry practised in Ward 10B was allowed to be practised for that period of
time, with the full knowledge of the authorities, why isn't the State Government
or the Hospital Board footing the bill for the nurses?" Ms June Anstee, a
solicitor from Roberts and Kane, representing the QNU, said Mr McElligott had
said there was no reason why the Townsville Hospitals Board's solicitors could
not represent 10B nurses. But the board's solicitors said they could not because
of conflicts in evidence with other board employees. A Health Department
spokesman last night repeated that Government policy was that the hospital board
should provide legal representation to past and current employees if called
before the commission, provided ""there were no allegations of substance against
them". Ms Hawksworth said to her knowledge no criminal charges had been laid. _
PHILIP HAMMOND

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              292 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday

Bill status of An Act establishing the caregiver advise, record and enable
(CARE) act

LENGTH: 1238  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Boston: General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has issue the
following bill status:



 Sponsors:



 Chris Walsh

 Status:

  SECTION 1. Definitions



 "Hospital" is defined for the purposes of this Act as a facility licensed under
Massachusetts General Law Chapter 111.



 "After-Care" is defined for the purposes of this Act as any assistance provided
by a caregiver to a patient under this Act after the patient's discharge from a
hospital. Such assistance may include, but is not limited to, assisting with
basic activities of daily living (ADLs), instrumental activities of daily living
(IADLs), or carrying out medical/nursing tasks, such as managing wound care,
assisting in administering medications, and operating medical equipment.





 "Caregiver" is defined for the purposes of this Act as any individual duly
designated as a caregiver by a patient under this Act who provides after-care
assistance to a patient living in his or her residence. A designated caregiver
may include, but is not limited to, a relative, partner, friend, or neighbor who
has a significant relationship with the patient.



 "Discharge" is defined for the purposes of this Act as a patient's exit or
release from a hospital to the patient's residence following an inpatient
admission.



 "Entry" is defined for the purposes of this Act as a patient's admission into a
hospital for the purposes of medical care.



 "Residence" is defined for the purposes of this Act as a dwelling that the
patient considers to be his or her home. A "residence" for the purposes of this
Act shall not include any rehabilitation facility, hospital, nursing home,
assisted living facility, or group home licensed by the Massachusetts Department
of Public Health.



 SECTION 2. Caregiver--Opportunity to Designate.



 A hospital shall provide each patient or, if applicable, the patient's legal
guardian with at least one opportunity to designate at least one caregiver under
this Act no later than twenty-four (24) hours following the patient's entry into
a hospital and prior to the patient's discharge or transfer to another facility.




 In the event that the patient is unconscious or otherwise incapacitated upon
his or her entry into a hospital, the hospital shall provide such patient or
his/her legal guardian with an opportunity to designate a caregiver within
twenty-four (24) hours following the patient's recovery of his or her
consciousness or capacity.



 In the event that the patient or the patient's legal guardian declines to
designate a caregiver under the Act, the hospital shall promptly document this
in the patient's medical record.



 In the event that the patient or the patient's legal guardian designates an
individual as a caregiver under this Act:



 The hospital shall promptly request the written consent of the patient or the
patient's legal guardian to release medical information to the patient's
designated caregiver following the hospital's established procedures for
releasing personal health information and in compliance with all federal and
state laws.



 If the patient or the patient's legal guardian declines to consent to release
medical information to the patient's designated caregiver, the hospital is not
required to provide notice to the caregiver under Section 3 of this Act or
provide information contained in the patient's discharge plan under Section 4 of
this Act.



 The hospital shall record the patient's designation of caregiver, the
relationship of the designated caregiver to the patient, and the name, telephone
number, and address of the patient's designated caregiver in the patient's
medical record.



 A patient may elect to change his or her designated caregiver at any time, and
the hospital must record this change in the patient's medical record within
twenty-four (24) hours.



 A designation of a caregiver by a patient or a patient's legal guardian under
this Section does not obligate any individual to perform any after-care tasks
for any patient.



 This section shall not be construed to require a patient or a patient's legal
guardian to designate any individual as a caregiver as defined by this Act.



 SECTION 3. Notice to Designated Caregiver.



 A hospital shall notify the patient's designated caregiver of the patient's
discharge or transfer to another hospital or facility licensed by the
Massachusetts Department of Public Health as soon as possible, which may be
after the patient's physician issues a discharge order, and not later than four
(4) hours prior to the patient's actual discharge or transfer to such facility.



 SECTION 4. Instruction to Designated Caregiver.



 As soon as possible and not later than twenty-four (24) hours prior to a
patient's discharge from a hospital, the hospital shall consult with the
designated caregiver along with the patient regarding the caregiver's
capabilities and limitations and issue a discharge plan that describes a
patient's after-care needs at his or her residence.



 At minimum, a discharge plan shall include:



 The name and contact information of the caregiver designated under this Act;



 A description of all after-care tasks necessary to maintain the patient's
ability to reside at home, taking into account the capabilities and limitations
of the caregiver; and



 Contact information for any health care, community resources, and long-term
services and supports necessary to successfully carry out the patient's
discharge plan.



 The hospital issuing the discharge plan must provide caregivers with
instruction in all after-care tasks described in the discharge plan.



 At minimum, such instruction shall include:



 A live demonstration of the tasks performed by a hospital employee or
individual with whom the hospital has a contractual relationship authorized to
perform the after-care task, provided in a culturally competent manner and in
accordance with the hospital's requirements to provide language access services
under state and federal law;



 An opportunity for the caregiver and patient to ask questions about the
after-care tasks; and



 Answers to the caregiver's and patient's questions provided in a culturally
competent manner and in accordance with the hospital's requirements to provide
language access services under state and federal law.



 Any instruction required under this Act shall be documented in the patient's
medical record, including, at minimum, the date, time, and contents of the
instruction.



 The Massachusetts Department of Public Health is authorized to promulgate
regulations to implement the provisions of this Act, including, but not limited
to, regulations to further define the content and scope of any instruction
provided to caregivers under this Act.



 Section 5. Non-Interference with Powers of Existing Health Care Directives.



 Nothing in this Act shall be construed to interfere with the rights of an agent
operating under a valid health care directive under Massachusetts General Laws
Chapter 201D.



 SECTION 6. Limitations



 Nothing in this act shall be construed to create a private right of action
against a hospital, a hospital employee, or an individual, with whom a hospital
has a contractual relationship, or to otherwise supersede or replace exiting
rights or remedies under any other provision of law.



 SECTION 7. Effective Date.



 This Act shall be effective immediately upon ratification.



  In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

              November 18, 1995, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

Fired nurse gets $250,000 goodbye from hospital

BYLINE: By Desmond Bill TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 685 words


   The Toronto Hospital is going to pay $250,000 to a Jamaican-born nurse, and
her legal agent says it is to compensate her for her racially motivated
dismissal.

But a hospital official said: "She was an incompetent nurse who was looking
after babies and we paid her off to guarantee she did not come back.

"It cost $250,000 of your money and my money but it was the only way to make
sure she would not come back to Toronto Hospital," David Allen told a Star
reporter yesterday.

He insisted the settlement "had nothing to do with discrimination" and said one
of the reasons for settling it was that the case had already cost the hospital
$180,000 in legal fees.

Claudine Charley worked at the hospital as a registered nurse from June, 1989,
until she was fired in August, 1992. The Ontario Nurses' Association protested
her dismissal and took the case to arbitration.

Charley engaged Harry Kopyto, a disbarred lawyer, to act as her legal agent at
the arbitration hearings. She was also represented by the association lawyer.

Early last month, after 37 days of hearings, both sides agreed to go before a
mediator to try and settle the case.

An agreement was finally reached at 3 a.m. on Oct. 20 after a 10-hour
negotiating session at the Sheraton Centre Hotel.

The settlement was announced yesterday by Kopyto, who called it "the largest
award for systemic discrimination in the history of Canada."

Kopyto said another 70 days of arbitration hearings had been scheduled and
conceded the legal expenses were likely a factor in persuading the hospital to
settle.

But he said a more important reason was that the hospital wanted to avoid "major
embarrassment at some of the things coming out."

He claimed Charley "was a victim of systemic discrimination. She was
overscrutinized, overmonitored and when she made mistakes there was
overreaction. They made a big deal of the smallest thing.

"She also was denied an opportunity to remove herself from people with whom she
was in conflict; she was trapped in a situation of continuous tension and
anxiety."

Kopyto said the hospital tried to show Charley was incompetent by citing
mistakes she made in keeping charts and in failing to give the proper quantities
of medicine.

"Someone went through everything she had done for three years and came up with
every single thing to justify her dismissal, like being five minutes late for
work," he said in a telephone interview.

Kopyto said Charley found a new job soon after being fired. She now works at a
hospital in North York but was forced into bankruptcy and lost her house.

He said the payment to Charley amounts to a "punitive award" since she had
"relatively little monetary loss" as a result of being fired.

He also claimed that as part of the "award," she had been given a "helpful
reference" by the hospital.

Allen pointed out, however, that the money is not an award but a settlement and
the letter of reference simply states she worked at the hospital and gives the
dates of her employment.

Allen said Charley was fired because "she was an incompetent nurse who was
looking after babies. We were worried about the welfare of the newborns."

He said the hospital had spent $180,000 in legal fees for 37 days of hearings
and Kopyto had booked an additional 70 days, which would have run up huge
additional expenses.

"We had no assurance that this woman would be gone from our institution at the
end of this arbitration," he said in a phone interview. "The arbitrator could
have said, 'Take her back.' "

"We decided the only way to guarantee she would not come back to Toronto
Hospital was to offer her a settlement she would accept.

"It was the price we had to pay. We paid her off to guarantee she did not come
back."

He said it was "outrageous" for Kopyto to claim Charley was the victim of racial
discrimination.

"She was fired for not providing safe care to infants," he said.

Charley could not be reached for comment. A friend of hers told The Star she was
angry at Kopyto for having issued a public statement on the settlement.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              294 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

PIMS has just one medico-legal expert

LENGTH: 481  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, April 16 -- Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) is short of
medico-legal experts to deal with cases involving police.

It is learnt that the hospital, the largest government-run in the city, has only
one medico-legal expert for three shifts a day.

According to doctors, the hospital should have at least eight experts to ably
handle medico-legal cases.

The severe shortage of medico-legal experts has led to long delays in treatment
of the victims of accidents, torture, firing incidents etc, and issuance of
reports required for FIR registration in such cases.

Such delays torment families, which can't secure bodies of their members until
the issuance of post-mortem certificates.

Under the law, anyone, who gets injured in a car accident or receives a bullet
wound, is required to go to a government hospital for treatment and obtaining
medico-legal certificate for getting an FIR registered.

On the other hand, an aggrieved party cannot receive dead body of a victim until
and unless the medico legal expert issues a post-mortem certificate. Doctors
told Daily Times on Thursday that on average, the hospital received six to seven
medico-legal cases a day but handling them efficiently and without delay was
simply not possible for one person.

They said in absence of adequate number of medico-legal experts, untrained staff
attended to injured persons besides autopsying bodies. They also said as there
was no woman medico-legal expert, female paramedics and technicians with the
help of their male colleagues assessed and treated injuries of women, autopsied
bodies, and issued reports to police for FIR registration.

The doctors also revealed a law enacted in 1861 prohibited post mortems between
dusk and dawn. They demanded immediate repeal of that law for the relief of the
already distressed families. In the capital city, only PIMS and Polyclinic could
issue medico-legal certificates. A doctor said the city's all government
hospitals should be allowed to issue such certificates.

It is learnt that at Polyclinic, a medical officer dealing with emergency cases
prepares medico-legal report before sending it to medico-legal surgeon for
verification and seal.

In a doctor's opinion, "although it goes like this but the process is flawed
because sometimes, we receive cases of 'self-created' injuries, which cannot be
identified by medical officers. Only a medico-legal surgeon has the expertise to
expose such cases. In absence of such an expert, the medial officer prepares
reports without going into the details, which may put some behind bars."

A station house officer said police couldn't detect 'self-created' injuries. "We
only have to rely on the report issued by a medico-legal surgeon," he said.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bert Fish, board accept $6 million settlement from former law firm

BYLINE: SKYLER SWISHERBUSINESS WRITER, SKYLER SWISHER - BUSINESS WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 318  words


Bert Fish Medical Center and the Southeast Volusia Hospital District have
reached a settlement in a lawsuit accusing their former legal counsel of giving
faulty advice that cost the hospital and taxing district millions.

The taxing district board for the New Smyrna Beach hospital agreed earlier this
month to accept a $6 million settlement from the Orlando-based law firm Lowndes,
Drosdick, Doster, Kantor & Reed.

The board discussed a whole range of settlement figures," said Joseph Benedict
III, chairman of the Southeast Volusia Hospital District's board. "This one was
probably the most acceptable to all members of the board."

Of the settlement funds, $900,000 will go to pay legal costs, Benedict said.

Board members are still determining how the remaining funds will be distributed.

The suit was filed in response to legal advice given by its former general
counsel Jim Heekin and other lawyers at his firm. It accused Heekin of
improperly advising the board members that they were exempt from the state's
Sunshine Law, a statute that requires the public's business be conducted in open
meetings.

The lawsuit follows a 2011 trial challenging a merger between Bert Fish and
Adventist Health Systems, which operates several Florida Hospitals in Volusia
and Flagler counties.

Judge Richard Graham ruled 21 closed-door meetings held over 16 months leading
up to the July 2010 merger violated the Sunshine Law.

Some called the botched merger the largest violation of the Sunshine Law in the
state's history.

Benedict said the defendants indicated they would accept the settlement during
mediation. The deal is contingent, though, on final approval from the
defendants, he said.

Messages left with Heekin and a representative of his attorney, Rumberger Kirk &
Caldwell, were not immediately returned Tuesday afternoon.

Bert Fish officials said the failure of the merger cost the hospital and
district about $22 million.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Bert Fish Medical Center and the Southeast Volusia Hospital
District sued their former legal counsel after a deal to merge with Adventist
Health Systems fell through because of Sunshine Law violations. The hospital and
the board believed the advice they received was faulty. News-Journal file

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2012 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2012 News-Journal Corporation


                              296 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Members of dissolved foundation fear for future

BYLINE: By KELLI HART; Staff writer

SECTION: LAGUNABEACH; Pg. CoverStory

LENGTH: 563 words

ABSTRACT

Members of dissolved foundation fear at least some its $15 million in assets may
be used to pay debts rather than benefit health services.

FULL TEXT

Now that South Coast Medical Center's foundation has been dissolved by the
hospital's operator, foundation members and major donors fear the assets they
raised for the foundation will not be used to benefit the hospital in the way
they intended.

Community members are concerned that funds donated to the hospital and not
designated for a specific use will be used to pay SCMC's debts.

The same day Adventist Health announced St. Joseph Health System as its
preferred buyer for the hospital, Adventist and South Coast Chief Executive
Bruce Christian dissolved the foundation in a closed-door meeting, leaving board
members stunned and confused, said Susan Morrison, a hospital donor and
three-year foundation member.

"We left the room kind of shell-shocked," Morrison said of the Nov. 14 meeting.

At issue is what will become of the foundation's $15 million in assets,
including the hospital's $9.7 million Medical Office Building, which became
property of Adventist Health, a nonprofit organization stationed in Roseville
that helps operate health-care facilities.

Now that the foundation no longer exists, Adventist has the legal right to those
assets, according to Jerry Peters, Adventist Health's attorney.

The charitable foundation was established in 1976 to encourage donations to the
hospital and to fund special projects and upgrades.

An affiliation agreement signed 10 years ago by foundation members and Adventist
Health stated that the foundation and SCMC would stay separate entities but
would merge if the hospital could not stay open on its own, according to legal
documents.

The agreement also states the foundation's assets would be available to
Adventist Health for assuming the challenge of saving SCMC from closure, which
it has been doing the past 10 years, according to Peters and legal documents.

The affiliation agreement became "moot" in 2006 when the foundation transferred
its membership to SCMC, Peters said.

"Since that date, SCMC has had the legal right to merge the foundation into
SCMC, thereby assuming control over all of the foundation's assets," Peters
said. "This merger did not happen as a function of the affiliation agreement but
instead is a function of the articles and bylaws of the foundation" and
California nonprofit law.

Morrison said other foundation members and donors like herself feel slighted now
that their donated money could be used toward Adventist Health's other hospitals
or to pay SCMC's debts.

Morrison said Christian told foundation members a month ago that although the
legal language stated that SCMC and Adventist Health could take the foundation's
assets, SCMC would never try to do that.

Christian is out of state and was unavailable for comment.

After Adventist Health announced St. Joseph Health System as SCMC's top bidder,
the pending sale was sent to the state Attorney General's Office for approval.
Peters said the use of the foundation's assets will be decided by the attorney
general.

A legal memo states that SCMC sustained a net loss of $44.7 million from 1998 to
August 2008.

Rooms with ocean views are common at South Coast Medical Center.

Staff members review the patient board in the emergency room at South Coast
Medical Center. Sam Gangwer/Staff file photos

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Blacktown Sun

                                 June 22, 2016

Legal advice for young mums

BYLINE: Harrison Vesey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 305  words


Pregnant women and young mothers will be able to access free legal advice at
Blacktown Hospital in what is a first for western Sydney.

Western Sydney Local Health District and Legal Aid NSW yesterday launched the
first location of an integrated Health Justice Partnership.

'Legal Aid NSW gives free legal advice to patients on family law issues
including domestic violence, parenting, and care and protection issues,' senior
family lawyer Ruth Pilkinton said.

'The legal advice service is primarily available to women attending the
antenatal and maternity unit at Blacktown Hospital, but will also help other
in-patients, day patients, their family members and staff.'

Hospital staff had previously referred patients to Legal Aid but social worker
Anna Fainuu believes it will make a big difference having lawyers on site every
Tuesday.

Ms Fainuu said she expects the service will mainly be used by mothers seeking
advice for concerns including domestic violence, separation and conflict, as
well understanding the rights and responsibilities of both parents.

'[Mothers] can feel really quite helpless in terms of what they can do. Being
able to have access to a solicitor is really quite empowering to them, feeling
like they can speak to someone and get some advice about what their rights are,'
she said.

Ms Fainuu said it is often difficult for patients to follow up referrals once
they go home, leading to at-risk women getting lost in the system.

'Often people are dealing with so many things that seem really quite
overwhelming, then it snowballs,' she said.

'When you're seeing someone face-to-face we find that just makes it so much more
accessible. We know that they're getting advice.'

Legal Aid NSW has legal services in over 200 locations across NSW. The Legal Aid
lawyer at Blacktown Hospital can be contacted on 1800 551 589.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Blacktown Sun

                                 June 22, 2016

Legal advice for young mums

BYLINE: Harrison Vesey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 305  words


Pregnant women and young mothers will be able to access free legal advice at
Blacktown Hospital in what is a first for western Sydney.

Western Sydney Local Health District and Legal Aid NSW yesterday launched the
first location of an integrated Health Justice Partnership.

'Legal Aid NSW gives free legal advice to patients on family law issues
including domestic violence, parenting, and care and protection issues,' senior
family lawyer Ruth Pilkinton said.

'The legal advice service is primarily available to women attending the
antenatal and maternity unit at Blacktown Hospital, but will also help other
in-patients, day patients, their family members and staff.'

Hospital staff had previously referred patients to Legal Aid but social worker
Anna Fainuu believes it will make a big difference having lawyers on site every
Tuesday.

Ms Fainuu said she expects the service will mainly be used by mothers seeking
advice for concerns including domestic violence, separation and conflict, as
well understanding the rights and responsibilities of both parents.

'[Mothers] can feel really quite helpless in terms of what they can do. Being
able to have access to a solicitor is really quite empowering to them, feeling
like they can speak to someone and get some advice about what their rights are,'
she said.

Ms Fainuu said it is often difficult for patients to follow up referrals once
they go home, leading to at-risk women getting lost in the system.

'Often people are dealing with so many things that seem really quite
overwhelming, then it snowballs,' she said.

'When you're seeing someone face-to-face we find that just makes it so much more
accessible. We know that they're getting advice.'

Legal Aid NSW has legal services in over 200 locations across NSW. The Legal Aid
lawyer at Blacktown Hospital can be contacted on 1800 551 589.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 29, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Blocks Giuliani Plan To Sell Hospital in Queens

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section B;   Page 4;   Column 5;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 585 words


A State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan has issued a temporary restraining
order to prevent New York City from finalizing its plans to sell the Queens
Hospital Center, one of three public hospitals that were to be offered for sale
next month. The decision presents the first formal legal obstacle to Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani's goal of privatizing some or all of the city's public
hospital system.

The Mayor's advisers have said they plan to begin the privatization effort with
the release of a sales memorandum -- a first offering plan -- for three
hospitals in mid-October. That document is supposed to clarify potential sales
terms for Queens Hospital Center, Elmhurst Hospital Center and Coney Island
Hospital.

The restraining order comes in response to a lawsuit brought by the Queens
Hospital Community Advisory Board, contending that so far it has been denied its
legal right to meaningful consultation with the Mayor's office or the Health and
Hospitals Corporation regarding the sales plans. The lawsuit also contends that
the city lacks the authority to sell public hospitals without the approval of
the hospitals corporation's board of directors, a body the Mayor has frequently
sidestepped in developing his plans to revolutionize the system.

Each public hospital has an advisory board, whose purpose is to safeguard the
interests of the local community. The hospitals corporation must consult with
the boards, although they have no policy-making power.

The restraining order, issued by Justice Leland DeGrasse, temporarily prevents
the city or the hospitals corporation from moving forward on the sales while the
legal issues involved in the suit are being resolved. Also, it implicitly raises
questions about how the Mayor's advisers have developed his plans for
overhauling the public system, with many major decisions made behind closed
doors.

"Ever since the Mayor announced his plans last February," said Rory Lancman,
Chairman of the Queens Hospital Center Community Advisory Board, "we have
politely requested information and inclusion in the decision-making process and
we have been ignored. This is a big win even though it is a first little baby
step."

Mr. Lancman said his group wanted meaningful consultation with City Hall and
health corporation officials regarding the hospital's future, and wanted to see
the selling memorandum before it was made public, so that their comments and
concerns could be incorporated into policy.

Maria K. Mitchell, the Mayor's special adviser on health policy and the
chairwoman of the hospitals corporation's board, said the legal action would not
affect the city's plans.

"We had planned on meeting with them anyway," she said. She noted that Luis R.
Marcos, president of the hospitals corporation, attended the Queens community
advisory board meeting last night as had been previously scheduled. The lawsuit
was filed before the meeting.

"We have been moving down this road of talking with them and briefing them," Ms.
Mitchell said. She added that the advisory board's insistence on seeing the
memorandum before its public release was misplaced, since the October offering
plan would be a jumping-off point that would be revised many times before a
buyer was found.

But Mr. Lancman said he worried that the kind of consultation envisioned by the
Mayor's office would be only a formality, adding: "They have been working on the
document for nine months. We want some details and some time to look at them."


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Negligent NHS pays out pounds 48m but only pounds 31m of it goesto patients ;
to patients

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 287 words


The NHS has paid out more than pounds 48 million on behalf of West Midlands
hospitals in one year, following clinical negligence cases bought by patients.

Only pounds 31 million went to patients themselves, with pounds 17 million spent
on legal fees. Ministers were "concerned" about the amount of NHS money going to
the legal profession, and will publish proposals to change the law.

The trust with the highest payments was Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Trust,
which runs Russells Hall Hospital in Dudley. Cases against the trust led to
pay-outs of more than pounds 9 million, of which pounds 7.5 million went to
patients.

Claims against Heart of England NHS Trust, which runs Good Hope and Heartlands
hospitals as well as Solihull Hospital, came to pounds 8.4 million, of which
pounds 5.6 million went to patients.

Payments are made by the NHS Litigation Authority, an NHS body, which provides
insurance to health trusts.

The figures show that pounds 48.4 million was paid out in 2008-9 for hospitals
and primary care trusts in the West Midlands - pounds 5.3 million on defence
costs but pounds 11.6 million on legal fees claimed by patients bringing cases.

Andrew Mitchell MP (Con, Sutton Coldfield) said: "We do need a fair system for
patients who have received negligent treatment. But, instead, we have a deeply
regrettable system which incurs vast legal costs for NHS trusts involved in
legal battles."

A spokesman for the NHS Litigation Authority said: "The defence costs are
incurred by lawyers employed by us. They are doing pretty much the same thing as
the claimant's legal team but often charge much more."

INSIDE: Comment, page 2 WEB: Go to birminghampost. net/health for table on NHS
Trusts payouts

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

Karachi's major hospitals face lady MLOs shortage

SECTION: Vol. 10 No. 154

LENGTH: 296  words


Three major public hospitals of Karachi, including Jinnah Postgraduate Medical
Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH),
are facing acute shortage of female medico-legal officers (MLOs); therefore, the
women victims have to wait several hours to get examined from female attendants.

A senior Medic-Legal Officer at Civil Hospital Karachi told reporter that
currently, there were five working strengths of lady MLOs in three major
hospitals out of which only three were available for duties as one was on leave
while another was suffering from cancer. He said currently only three female
MLOs were available in Jinnah Hospital, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbasi
Shaheed Hospital.

He said MLO's report containing the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details compiled in an official form at the time of autopsy
provides the basis for a court's case, carrying an impact on the final decision.
But unfortunately these important vaccines are left vacant in major hospitals.

The official said the shortage of female MLOs had increased the burden of work
in male MLOs in major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency, the male
and female MLOs have to work extra hours against their duty hours. He said there
was urgent need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and also to
minimize the extra burden om male MLOs.

Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz Ahmed Khokhar, while talking to reporter, said
there were nine sanctioned posts of lady MLOs out of them only five were
available. He said: One lady MLO is on leave and another is suffering from
cancer thus there is only three lady MLOs in major hospitals.

He said number of lady medico-legal officers should be enhanced keeping the
current population and crime rate.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday

City's three major hospitals run short of female MLOs

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 963

LENGTH: 400  words


Three major public hospitals of Karachi -- Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre
(JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH) -- are
facing acute shortage of female Medico Legal Officers (MLOs) as a result, women
patients and injured have to wait several hours to get examined from female
attendants, it was learned on Friday. A senior MLO at JPMC said on anonymity
that there is acute shortage of female MLOs in Karachi's three major public
sector hospitals, which had put heavy burden on male MLOs.

He said that only two female MLOs are available in Jinnah Hospital and Civil
Hospital Karachi, out of four seats allocated for each major hospital in three
shifts, while only one lady MLOs is available in Abbasi Shaheed Hospital. He
said: "MLOs's report provides the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details on an official form at the time of autopsy, which
becomes the base to fight court's case". He said MLOs could provide direction in
handling terrorism, rape and other cases. It is unfortunate that these important
vacancies could not be filled in these major hospitals, while the departments in
six hospitals are also non-functional dut to this lethargy.

He said three major hospitals of city had the facility of MLOs like ASH, JPMC
and CHK, while medico-legal department in six other hospitals -- Lyari General
Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital
Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Qatar
Orangi Town and Sindh Government Hospital Karachi Korangi -- are non-functional
due to MLOs' shortage. He said female MLOs' shortage had increased the burden of
work on male MLOs in major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency,
existing male and female MLOs had to work extra hours. He said there is urgent
need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and to minimize the extra
burden on male MLOs in those major hospitals. According to a Health Department
Sindh report, around 3500 postmortems are carried out in the city every year,
while 30,000 affectees are issued medico-legal certificates in different cases
during this period . These certificates later become beneficial for victims to
seek justice through courts. Senior MLO at CHK Dr Nisar Ali Shah, when
contacted, said that few seats of female MLOs are lying vacant in the city's
major public hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                                 June 17, 2007

Irish victims to testify at MRSA conference

BYLINE: Ali Bracken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N02

LENGTH: 442 words


An international conference on the MRSA superbug will this week hear harrowing
testimony from several Irish victims of the disease about how it has changed
their lives. The conference, which has been organised by the MRSA & Families
network, will take place in Trinity College, Dublin on Tuesday and as well as
personal stories from sufferers it will hear from a number of international
medical and legal experts on the social and financial cost of MRSA and other
hospital-acquired infections.

Among the speakers will be Tony Kavanagh, an MRSA survivor living in Galway, one
of hundreds of people who contracted the superbug in hospital and who is now
taking legal action, citing medical negligence. He went into a Dublin hospital a
relatively fit and healthy man for a routine operation in 2004 at age 54. It was
his first ever stay at hospital and he wasn't worried. But while there, he
contracted the superbug and almost died in the coming months.

Three years later, Kavanagh still hasn't been able to return to work, and
probably never will, because of ongoing health problems. "It was a routine
operation but it became a life-changing experience that will plague the rest of
my life. It affected my whole family. Our life, as we knew it, was over. But I
know I'm one of the lucky ones. I'm alive."

Kavanagh's operation to improve blood circulation in his legs was successful and
he was discharged a few days later only to be rushed back to hospital as an
emergency case as he had developed MRSA in some of his surgical wounds. "I was
only given a 30% chance of survival. Later, I flat-lined during a procedure and
nearly bled to death."

Kavanagh stressed taking legal action against the hospital was as much about
acknowledgment that he contracted the superbug in hospital because of
sub-standard hygiene as it was about compensation. "What we are all really
looking for is an apology."

The legal advisor to the MRSA & Families group will address the conference on
the progression of the various legal cases. Dr Betsy McCaughey, founder of the
US Committee to Reduce Infection Deaths, will address the conference on new
technologies to make eradication of infections possible. "We have compelling
evidence that 90% of hospital-acquired infections can be eradicated if simple
measures are introduced.

"It is shocking that for so long both governments and hospitals have denied that
there is no connection between cleanliness and safety from infection," she said.
The day-long conference will also hear from Dr Ian Hosein, of the NHS hospital
trust in Cardiff and Vale, who will speak about a holistic approach to MRSA
prevention.

www.mrsaandfamiliesnetwork.ie.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 993 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2017 LexisNexis, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.,
                              All Rights Reserved
                     LexisNexis® Corporate Affiliations[TM]

                                August 28, 2017

                          FOUNDATION HEALTHCARE, INC.

                          14000 N Portland Ave Ste 200
                            Oklahoma City,  OK 73134
                                 United States


MSA: 36420 - Oklahoma City, OK

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (405) 608-1700, (800) 783-0404 (Toll Free)
URL: www.fdnh.com
E-MAIL: info@FDNH.com

LINKEDIN: www.linkedin.com/company/advanced-medical-enterprises

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY IDENTIFIERS * * * * * * * * * *
TICKER: FDNHD
DCA NUMBER: 1415703

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
PLACE OF INCORPORATION: Oklahoma
LEGAL STATUS: PUBLIC
ORGANIZATION TYPE: Public
EMPLOYEES:
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES:  873

IMPORT:  NO
EXPORT:  NO

* * * * * * * * * * CORPORATE STRUCTURE * * * * * * * * * *

CORPORATE HIERARCHY

* * * * * * * * * * EXECUTIVES * * * * * * * * * *

OFFICER             TITLE TYPE          ROLE(S)             EMAIL/SOCIAL MEDIA
Hubert King, CFO &  Executive           Chief Financial     EMAIL:
Chief Acctg Officer                     Officer             HKing@grmh.com
                                        Chief Accounting
                                        Officer
Thomas Newman, COO  Executive           Chief Operating     EMAIL:
                                        Officer             TNewman@fdnh.com
Marcelo Puiggari,   Executive           Vice President      EMAIL:
Gen Counsel & VP-                       General/Corporate   MPuigarri@fdnh.com
Legal Affairs                           Counsel
                                        Legal/Legal Affairs
Travis Crenshaw,    Executive           Chief Information   EMAIL:
CIO                                     Officer             TCrenshaw@grmh.com


DIRECTOR            TITLE TYPE          ROLE(S)             EMAIL/SOCIAL MEDIA
Lorin Patterson     Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            LPatterson@grmh.com
Stanton Nelson, CEO Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                    of Directors        Chief Executive     SNelson@fdnh.com
                                        Officer             LINKEDIN:
                                                            www.linkedin.com/pu
                                                            b/stanton-nelson/47
                                                            /799/ab4
Thomas Michaud, Chm Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                    of Directors        Chairman            TMichaud@fdnh.com
Joseph Harroz Jr.   Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            JHarroz@fdnh.com
Steven List         Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            SList@fdnh.com
Richard Zahn        Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            RZahn@grmh.com
Robert Moreno       Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            RMoreno@fdnh.com

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *
Headquartered in Oklahoma City, OK, Foundation Healthcare, Inc. (OTC: FDNHD) is
engaged in the ownership and management of facilities related to the surgical
segment in the healthcare industry. The company operates four surgical
hospitals, nine ambulatory surgical centers, and one hospital outpatient
department in the US. It provides services to patients seeking surgeries such as
orthopedics, neurosurgery, pain management, and more. The company had FYE
12/31/2015 revenue of $126.1 million and has 873 employees according to its
current 10K government filing.

INDUSTRY TYPE: Holding Company; Hospitals, Ambulatory Surgery Centers & Sleep
Centers

* * * * * * * * * * MARKET AND INDUSTRY * * * * * * * * * *
PRIMARY NAICS:
551112 - Offices of Other Holding Companies
SECONDARY NAICS:
622110 - General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
622310 - Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals
621493 - Freestanding Ambulatory Surgical and Emergency Centers
PRIMARY SIC:
6719 - Offices of Holding Companies, NEC
SECONDARY SIC:
8062 - General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
8069 - Specialty Hospitals, Except Psychiatric (except childrens and substance
abuse hospitals)
8011 - Offices & Clinics of Doctors of Medicine
COMPETITORS:

     ·    Apria Healthcare Group Inc.
     ·    Walgreen Co.
     ·    Target Corporation
     ·    CVS Health Corporation
     ·    Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
     ·    Lincare Holdings Inc.


* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *
FISCAL YEAR DATE: December 31, 2015

SALES:  USD 126,139,824
NET INCOME:  USD 12,542,562
ASSET:   USD 119,915,222
LIABILITIES:  USD 126,848,007
NETWORTH:  USD -6,932,785
REVENUE TYPE:  Revenue

* * * * * * * * * * SECURITIES INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EXCHANGE: OTC-Over-the-Counter Pink Sheets

* * * * * * * * * * SERVICE FIRMS * * * * * * * * * *
AUDITOR: Hein & Associates LLP, Denver, CO, 80201

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017


                              305 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                              June 26, 2017 Monday

Karachi's major hospitals face lady MLOs shortage

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 177

LENGTH: 295  words


Three major public hospitals of Karachi, including Jinnah Postgraduate Medical
Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH),
are facing acute shortage of female medico-legal officers (MLOs); therefore, the
women victims have to wait several hours to get examined from female attendants.

A senior Medic-Legal Officer at Civil Hospital Karachi told PPI that currently,
there were five working strengths of lady MLOs in three major hospitals out of
which only three were available for duties as one was on leave while another was
suffering from cancer. He said currently only three female MLOs were available
in Jinnah Hospital, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

He said MLO's report containing the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details compiled in an official form at the time of autopsy
provides the basis for a court's case, carrying an impact on the final decision.
But unfortunately these important vaccines are left vacant in major hospitals.

The official said the shortage of female MLOs had increased the burden of work
in male MLOs in major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency, the male
and female MLOs have to work extra hours against their duty hours. He said there
was urgent need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and also to
minimize the extra burden om male MLOs.

Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz Ahmed Khokhar, while talking to PPI, said
there were nine sanctioned posts of lady MLOs out of them only five were
available. He said: One lady MLO is on leave and another is suffering from
cancer thus there is only three lady MLOs in major hospitals.

He said number of lady medico-legal officers should be enhanced keeping the
current population and crime rate.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday

Bert Fish getting assets back Board hears how separation will affect finances

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

LENGTH: 569  words


EDGEWATER -- Bert Fish Medical Center will return to public ownership with about
$27 million in net assets, the same amount it had before becoming privately
controlled, the Southeast Volusia Hospital District board heard Thursday night.

On July 1, the district board is expected to once again control the New Smyrna
Beach hospital after a year under nonprofit Adventist Health System.

The partnership between the public board and the national nonprofit hospital
company that was finalized July 1, 2010, is undergoing a court-ordered unwinding
because it was the result of closed meetings that violated the state's Sunshine
Law.

Thursday, for the first time, the board heard about the money involved, and got
a better idea of the impact the unwinding will have on the hospital and,
ultimately, Southeast Volusia taxpayers.

The specifics of the separation are scheduled to go before Circuit Judge Richard
Graham on June 24. District representatives for the board said they didn't have
an agreement for the board to sign Thursday because negotiations have gone down
to the wire. But some of the points the board agreed to in principle Thursday
include:*Making Adventist Health responsible for $921,000 in severance payments
given to former Bert Fish CEO Bob Williams and Marketing Director Garry Mac when
the changeover occurred.*Having Adventist Health pay $1.35 million to the
medical center and $1.543 million to the hospital district, with the amounts due
30 days after the June 30 closing.*Splitting the $940,000 legal fees from one
firm between the hospital and Adventist Health that were spent for defending the
partnership. "This was a very complicated process with people trying to figure
out the best thing to do," said Mike Bowers, senior vice president of Community
Hospital Corp., which is negotiating with Adventist Health on behalf of the
hospital district.

Taxes the district levies on property owners in Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak
Hill and a portion of Port Orange support indigent care at the hospital. Board
members are appointed by the governor.

A suit brought against the merger entangled the partners -- Adventist Health and
the hospital district -- in a legal battle for which the total costs are not yet
known. Added to that, employee pensions and technology underwent a conversion
that now needs to be converted back.

This is a very, very fair settlement," Bowers said.

The Bert Fish Foundation, which brought the suit, was involved to a degree in
drawing up the separation agreement. But the idea that the hospital -- and
ultimately the public -- would be involved in paying for those legal fees, in
addition to another law firm the district hired, raises questions, according to
one of the foundation's lawyers.

Thursday was the first they'd heard of those fees, said Jon Kaney, a Daytona
Beach lawyer representing the foundation.

Why should the hospital be paying Adventist legal bills?" Kaney said. "They were
the subject of the deal, not the doer of the deal."

By June 30, Bert Fish Medical Center shouldup with total net assets worth about
$27.2 million, its chief financial officer said. An audit that will evaluate the
hospital's fiscal health should show those assets in place June 30, the same as
the audit the year before, said CFO Al Allred.

The final agreement will be before the board at its next meeting 5 p.m. Thursday
at the Edgewater City Council chambers, 104 N. Riverside Drive.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              307 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hospitals 'use legal loophole to block inquiries into blunders'

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 495 words


HOSPITALS are routinely using the threat of legal action as an excuse to block
investigations into medical blunders, patient safety campaigners have claimed,
as they announced a possible legal challenge against the Health Secretary.

Lawyers for the charity Action against Medical Accidents (AvMA) have issued the
threat to Jeremy Hunt over NHS guidance which says hospitals can refuse to
investigate complaints if a patient or relative is considering future legal
action. The rules were supposed to be changed in 2009 so that hospitals could
not use the possibility of a future claim as an "excuse" to deny victims of poor
care a thorough investigation.

But campaigners say that confusing NHS guidance, which their lawyers suggest is
unlawful, is allowing hospitals to close down complaints routinely if there is
any hint that those who have suffered may sue for negligence. They have issued a
legal letter warning of their intention to seek a judicial review in the High
Court if the advice is not changed.

Peter Walsh, the AvMA chief executive, said the step had been taken reluctantly,
after previous efforts to persuade ministers to tackle the issue fell on deaf
ears. He said: "It is outrageous that after all we have heard about the need for
more openness and honesty in the NHS that the Department of Health continues to
leave the door open for NHS bodies to use potential claims for clinical
negligence as an excuse not to provide a truthful investigation and response to
a complaint."

Following the scandal at Mid Staffordshire Foundation trust, where up to 1,200
patients died amid appalling failings in care, ministers have promised to
introduce a "duty of candour" for the NHS, which means hospitals are legally
obliged to admit to medical blunders.

But the charity said such pledges were "meaningless" if hospitals were able to
block questions from relatives because a case might end up in court.

A dossier compiled by the charity has uncovered a number of cases in which
hospital trusts and the NHS Ombudsman have refused to examine complaints simply
because patients have been considering taking legal action.

Mr Walsh said: "What is really sinister about this is that patients are being
denied access to justice. Patients and relatives who complain about care should
be given the facts about what went on, regardless of whether they intend to make
a claim for negligence."

New cover-up 'Systemic issues' reference deleted

Evidence of a further cover-up at the NHS watchdog has been uncovered in emails
which show senior figures knew of "systemic" failings at a hospital maternity
unit.

Regional officials at the Care Quality Commission, discussing a response to
media queries about Morecambe Bay NHS trust in January 2010, agreed to delete a
reference to "systemic issues" at the unit, where 14 babies were later found to
have died. The CQC said it had published an independent report into the
regulation of Morecambe Bay and did not wish to comment further.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Hospitals 'use legal loophole to block inquiries into blunders'

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 495 words


HOSPITALS are routinely using the threat of legal action as an excuse to block
investigations into medical blunders, patient safety campaigners have claimed,
as they announced a possible legal challenge against the Health Secretary.

Lawyers for the charity Action against Medical Accidents (AvMA) have issued the
threat to Jeremy Hunt over NHS guidance which says hospitals can refuse to
investigate complaints if a patient or relative is considering future legal
action.

The rules were supposed to be changed in 2009 so that hospitals could not use
the possibility of a future claim as an "excuse" to deny victims of poor care a
thorough investigation.

But campaigners say that confusing NHS guidance, which their lawyers suggest is
unlawful, is allowing hospitals to close down complaints routinely if there is
any hint that those who have suffered may sue for negligence. They have issued a
legal letter warning of their intention to seek a judicial review in the High
Court if the advice is not changed.

Peter Walsh, the AvMA chief executive, said the step had been taken reluctantly,
after previous efforts to persuade ministers to tackle the issue fell on deaf
ears. He said: "It is outrageous that after all we have heard about the need for
more openness and honesty in the NHS that the Department of Health continues to
leave the door open for NHS bodies to use potential claims for clinical
negligence as an excuse not to provide a truthful investigation and response to
a complaint."

Following the scandal at Mid Staffordshire Foundation trust, where up to 1,200
patients died amid appalling failings in care, ministers have promised to
introduce a "duty of candour" for the NHS, which means hospitals are legally
obliged to admit to medical blunders.

But the charity said such pledges were "meaningless" if hospitals were able to
block questions from relatives because a case might end up in court.

A dossier compiled by the charity has uncovered a number of cases in which
hospital trusts and the NHS Ombudsman have refused to examine complaints simply
because patients have been considering taking legal action.

Mr Walsh said: "What is really sinister about this is that patients are being
denied access to justice. Patients and relatives who complain about care should
be given the facts about what went on, regardless of whether they intend to make
a claim for negligence."

New cover-up 'Systemic issues' reference deleted

Evidence of a further cover-up at the NHS watchdog has been uncovered in emails
which show senior figures knew of "systemic" failings at a hospital maternity
unit.

Regional officials at the Care Quality Commission, discussing a response to
media queries about Morecambe Bay NHS trust in January 2010, agreed to delete a
reference to "systemic issues" at the unit, where 14 babies were later found to
have died. The CQC said it had published an independent report into the
regulation of Morecambe Bay and did not wish to comment further.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                                 April 10, 2007
                              Business Day Edition

Case of detained TB patients on hold

BYLINE: Chantelle Benjamin

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 393  words


Case of detained TB patients on hold

Johannesburg Metro Editor

A COURT case brought by 13 patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
(MDR-TB), who want to be released from Sizwe Tuberculosis Hospital on the East
Rand and treated as outpatients, was postponed last week so that their newly
appointed legal counsel can familiarise themselves with the case.

The issue grabbed headlines recently when Gauteng's health department obtained a
court order compelling the patients to stay in hospital. The patients allegedly
tried to escape from Pretoria West Tuberculosis Hospital and return to their
families.

The case is considered an important legal test that could provide clarity for
other provinces with similar problems.

Legal counsel were appointed last Thursday after Johannesburg High Court judge
Kathleen Satchwell threatened to release the patients and jail two Gauteng
health department's representatives on Wednesday for not providing the patients
with proper legal representation as requested.

The department said yesterday the order compelling the patients to stay in
hospital was extended until the case was concluded. The 13 patients had
absconded from Pretoria West Tuberculosis Hospital last month, and turned up at
Sizwe, where they had been treated before.

Departmental spokesman Vusi Sibiya said at the time that the interim interdict
to prevent them from leaving the hospital until they were cured was to stop them
infecting other people. "As outpatients they pose a great risk to anyone who is
not infected."

Democratic Alliance Gauteng health spokesman Jack Bloom said yesterday it was
important the court did dismiss the case on a technicality. "I agree with the
department that MDR-TB patients are a danger to the community, and should be
kept until they are cured, but the department should have reacted more speedily
to the judge's order that it provide legal representation for the patients,"
said Bloom.

"This has been an avoidable embarrassment that I hope does not prejudice the
department in this important matter."

Gauteng, which has good resources, has a 64% cure rate for ordinary
tuberculosis.

Last week, the World Health Organisation said it planned to help SA improve
measures for controlling tuberculosis and gain a deeper understanding of the
deadly new drug-resistant strains of the disease that emerged in KwaZulu-Natal
last year.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Evening News (Norwich)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday

BYLINE: POWLESD

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 894 words


A woman has launched legal action against the Norfolk and Norwich University
Hospital after her husband contracted a killer bug while being treated on its
stroke unit.

Margaret Barkshire's husband Leonard caught MRSA after having a feeding tube -
known as a canula - fitted.

The 72-year-old was recovering from a stroke and his wife claims the disease has
slowed down his recovery.

His case has raised further questions about cleanliness and hygiene standards at
the hospital.

Mrs Barkshire, 60, claims the hospital was negligent towards her husband, who
was on Gunthorpe Ward for more than four months, and is taking legal advice
ahead of suing hospital bosses.

"My husband's stay in hospital was a total horror story," she said today.

"He caught MRSA and it nearly killed him. He had a stroke and because he
couldn't eat or take antibiotics normally so they fed him through a tube.

"Through this he caught MRSA and I feel it is only right to take legal action.
That hospital cost millions to build and yet an old man can be given a killer
bug just through a feeding tube."

The father-of-four from Harsnett Close, Bowthorpe, was admitted to the Colney
hospital in June last year after a stroke and spent nine days in a coma before
being cared for on the ward.

He was moved to Norwich Community Hospital just before Christmas.

Hospital bosses admitted Mr Barkshire did contract MRSA at the hospital after
being "a carrier" prior to his visit.

Canulas are used when a patient is unable to receive food, fluids or medication
in any other way and they are supposed to be sterilised pieces of equipment.

However if they are exposed to air where MRSA is present they can easily become
rife with the bug and through it can enter a person's bloodstream directly
through the canula, which in his case was inserted into his left arm.

Mrs Barkshire said: "When I lodged the complaint the doctor on Gunthorpe Ward
tried to tell me my husband brought MRSA with him on his skin but if even if
that was the case it still got into his bloodstream through the canula.

"The nurses responsible for the ward that day should have ensured my husband was
receiving the basic standard of care expected.

"The MRSA made him vulnerable, impaired and slowed down his recovery. Len was
starting to get better. He was looking more alert and he seemed to have been
making a good recovery.

"Now we will never know because his body was ravaged with the bug. My husband
has suffered a lot and so have the family because of a mistake by the hospital."

Mrs Barkshire claims even though her husband was in an isolated room after he
contracted MRSA staff were walking in and out of his room and attending to other
patients without changing their uniforms.

Although MRSA rates are not increasing, they are not falling and hospital bosses
failed to hit the government target to reduce infection rates by 20pc last year.

Norwich North MP Dr Ian Gibson warned that this could be the first of many legal
actions brought by patients and their families because of infections like MRSA.

He said: "With infections in hospitals unlikely to go away I'm afraid that this
might be the start of several such cases. I would urge hospital to be even more
vigilant about preventing the ways that various bacteria, like MRSA and
clostridium, may be brought into a hospital by anyone."

An exclusive Evening News report revealed nurses were flouting Royal College of
Nursing guidelines by wearing uniforms to and from work, increasing the risk of
spreading killer superbugs.

Keith Hall, 59, launched the Norwich MRSA Support Group after his wife Anne died
of the bug at the N&N. He has agreed to go take on Mr Barkshire's case and will
be attending a meeting with the family and hospital bosses in the next few
weeks.

"It is terrible that this has happened again at the hospital," he said. "The
fact the MRSA was even present before a canula was fitted points even more to
the fact that everyone should be tested for the disease before any treatment."

Health bosses have spent the past few years fighting MRSA as well as bugs such
as clostridium difficile. In December the hospital was also hit by an outbreak
of PVL (Panton Valentine Leukocidin) infection in it's 28-cot neo-natal ward.

Alfie Randall died at the age of 26 weeks from the bug. His parents Karlene, 20,
and Ian, 23, have sought legal advice before setting up a meeting with hospital
bosses.

A spokeswoman for the N&N said today: "We can confirm that Mrs Barkshire has
made a formal complaint to the N&N and we have written to her and met with her
in recent weeks.

"Mr Barkshire did suffer from MRSA while being treated for a stroke on Gunthorpe
Ward. We believe he was a carrier of the bug when he came into hospital and
developed an infection after having a canula inserted. Around a third of the
population carry this bacteria on their skin and an infection can be triggered
in vulnerable patients when it is exposed to an open wound.

"When Mr Barkshire was admitted to the N&N with a severe stroke his chances of
survival were slim. However, as a result of all the good care and treatment he
received from the medical and nursing staff whilst on the Stroke Unit, he
survived and is now being cared for on Goshawk ward at Norwich Community
Hospital."

t Do you have a health story for the Evening News? Call health reporter Sarah
Hall on 01603 772426 or email sarah.hall2@archant.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EEN


                    Copyright 2007 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Kaiser sued by other hospitals over bills;
$16 million statewide lawsuit includes 9 local facilities that claim the health
care giant has not honored contracts.

BYLINE: By COURTNEY PERKES; The Orange County Register

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. Cover_D

LENGTH: 434 words


Nine local hospitals are part of a statewide lawsuit againstKaiser Permanente,
claiming the managed care giant owes $16 million in medical bills.

About 20 hospitals owned or formerly owned byTenet Healthcare Corp.of Dallas
filed the lawsuit Dec. 29 in Orange County Superior Court. The suit alleges that
Oakland-based Kaiser failed to pay rates set by contract from 2000 to 2004.

Kaiser is the county's largest insurer with about 371,000 members. Spokesman Jim
Anderson said Wednesday that it was premature to discuss the allegations because
attorneys had not yet been served with the suit.

"It's a complex legal dispute that will be resolved in the legal arena," he
said.

Kaiser provides all-in-one service, including doctor's visits, prescriptions and
hospital stays. But with only one Kaiser hospital currently open in the county,
in Anaheim, some local Kaiser patients have to go outside the system for
emergency room visits or baby deliveries.

"Financial stability for a hospital is part and parcel to the reimbursement that
it receives," said Tenet spokesman Steven Campanini. "That results in the
hospital providing high-quality care."

In its lawsuit, Tenet says Kaiser paid less than negotiated rates for hospital
care. In some cases, Tenet says Kaiser refused to pay bills altogether, saying
the patient's medical condition wasn't life-threatening.

The dispute stems from old contracts, which were replaced in 2004, Tenet
officials said.

Such legal disputes are uncommon, said Orange-based health care consultant Stan
Otake. Though recently, tensions between hospitals and managed care companies
have been growing over contract rates.

The county's newest hospital owner, Dr. Prem Reddy, canceled managed care
contracts at his three local hospitals last year, saying the HMOs didn't pay
enough to cover expenses at Huntington Beach Hospital, La Palma Intercommunity
and West Anaheim Medical Center. Instead, Reddy's hospitals bill insurers,
including Kaiser, higher rates when their patients end up in a Reddy-owned
emergency room.

"If I'm a hospital operator, why sign a Kaiser contract? Those patients land at
your door anyway," Otake said.

The local Tenet hospitals involved in the suit are: Fountain Valley Regional
Hospital, Garden Grove Hospital, Irvine Regional Hospital, Los Alamitos Medical
Center and Placentia Linda Hospital.

Four former Tenet hospitals in the county also sued: Western Medical Centers in
Santa Ana and Anaheim, Chapman Medical Center in Orange and Coastal Communities
Hospital in Santa Ana.

SUED:Kaiser Permanente has medical offices in Irvine.

714-796-3686 or  cperkes@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2007 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 8, 2004, Thursday

170 SUPERBUG VICTIMS CONSIDER LEGAL ACTION

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 500 words


More than 170 people affected by hospital superbugs are considering taking legal
action against NHS trusts, it emerged yesterday.

Many victims of the MRSA infection, which is resistant to antibiotics, have
already progressed with their cases in the hope of getting an apology from the
hospital involved and compensation.

The bug is caused by bad hygiene such as medical staff not washing hands between
patients, and dirty wards.

There are more than 5,000 cases of MRSA a year in England and Wales, with an
estimated 800 deaths in 2002 - up from 51 in 1993.

If any of the legal cases prove successful it could open the floodgates for more
victims to come forward, at a huge cost to the NHS.

A great grandmother recently paid pounds 7,500 to have an operation abroad
because a Welsh hospital could not protect her against the killer superbug.

Blanche Beynon has twice caught MRSA after stays in hospital and her husband
died after contracting the antibiotic- resistant bug.

The retired legal secretary asked Llandough Hospital to promise it was free of
the potentially lethal bacteria when she was told she needed a knee replacement
operation.

When they could not guarantee the hospital was MRSA-free she travelled to
Belgium to have the operation there instead.

Tony Field, of MRSA Support, said all of their 173 members had asked about the
possibility of taking legal action.

Of these, around a dozen cases have led to solicitors being involved and the
negligence claims progressing further.

Mr Field, an MRSA victim from Birmingham, said in many cases the members just
wanted recognition from the hospital that they were at fault and to receive an
apology.

But he said there were also examples of financial loss suffered by the victims
and their families.

'For instance, we have got a lady who lost her husband when he was 56, that's
nine years to go to retirement.

'The pension she got was an absolute pittance from this and so at the age of 56
she had to go back to work to earn enough money to live,' Mr Field said.

He said this woman was taking legal action in a bid to get compensation.

Mr Field said his own attempts to take his case to court had hit difficulties
because he was treated at two hospitals and it was unclear where the infection
had been picked up.

Hospital-acquired infections like MRSA strike around 100,000 people each year in
England, costing pounds 1bn.

MRSA is one of the most serious because it is resistant to even the strongest
antibiotics, such as methicillin.

Last month health experts warned that cases of MRSA in children were increasing
and action needed to be tackle to stop them soaring further.

And last year the Department of Health published an action plan - Winning Ways -
setting out a range of measures to tackle the issue of hospital associated
infections.

This included introducing infection control officers in every hospital and
tightening up hand washing and cleaning regimes.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


                              313 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                                 June 24, 2007

Irish victims to testify at MRSA conference

BYLINE: Ali Bracken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N04

LENGTH: 437 words


An international conference on the MRSA superbug will this week hear harrowing
testimony from several Irish victims of the disease about how it has changed
their lives. The conference, which has been organised by the MRSA & Families
network, will take place in Trinity College, Dublin on Tuesday and as well as
personal stories from sufferers it will hear from a number of international
medical and legal experts on the social and financial cost of MRSA and other
hospital-acquired infections.

Among the speakers will be Tony Kavanagh, an MRSA survivor living in Galway, one
of hundreds of people who contracted the superbug in hospital and who is now
taking legal action, citing medical negligence. He went into a Dublin hospital a
relatively fit and healthy man for a routine operation in 2004 at age 54. It was
his first ever stay at hospital and he wasn't worried. But while there, he
contracted the superbug and almost died in the coming months.

Three years later, Kavanagh still hasn't been able to return to work, and
probably never will, because of ongoing health problems. "It was a routine
operation but it became a life-changing experience that will plague the rest of
my life. It affected my whole family. Our life, as we knew it, was over. But I
know I'm one of the lucky ones. I'm alive."

Kavanagh's operation to improve blood circulation in his legs was successful and
he was discharged a few days later only to be rushed back to hospital as an
emergency case as he had developed MRSA in some of his surgical wounds. "I was
only given a 30% chance of survival. Later, I flat-lined during a procedure and
nearly bled to death."

Kavanagh stressed taking legal action against the hospital was as much about
acknowledgment that he contracted the superbug in hospital because of
sub-standard hygiene as it was about compensation. "What we are all really
looking for is an apology."

The legal advisor to the MRSA & Families group will address the conference on
the progression of the various legal cases. Dr Betsy McCaughey, founder of the
US Committee to Reduce Infection Deaths, will address the conference on new
technologies to make eradication of infections possible. "We have compelling
evidence that 90% of hospital-acquired infections can be eradicated if simple
measures are introduced.

"It is shocking that for so long both governments and hospitals have denied that
there is no connection between cleanliness and safety from infection," she said.
The day-long conference will also hear from Dr Ian Hosein, of the NHS hospital
trust in Cardiff and Vale, who will speak about a holistic approach to MRSA
prevention.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Health dept fails to appoint 32 required MLO in Karachi

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 259

LENGTH: 309  words


The Medico-Legal Department of Karachi is facing acute shortage of male and
female medico-legal officers (MLOs) since last several months. An official at
Sindh health department on condition of anonymity said as many as 32 post were
lying vacant in medico-legal department of Karachi since last several months
that had put extra-burden on existing MLOs. The official informed that there
were 71 sanctioned posts in the department, out of which 32 were lying vacant in
the city. He further informed that there were 18 sanctioned posts of senior MLOs
in Karachi, out of which eight were lying vacant, there were four posts of Sr.
woman MLOs, out of them one was lying vacant, 19 posts of MLOs were lying
vacant, out of total 35 were sanctioned, while three posts were lying vacant out
of total five posts.

The police surgeon post is being run on temporary basis since one year. He said
according to the provincial health department, there should be 10 MLOs in each
tertiary hospital but in reality, only four hospitals, including Jinnah
Postgraduate Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi, Abbasi Shaheed Hospital and
Sindh Government Qatar Hospital, had MLOs. Several posts are lying vacant in
medico-legal department while strength of MLOs is also not increased with surge
of cases. He informed that ideally there should be at least four women and six
male MLOs in every hospital, but doctors were not interested in this job due to
the poor security situation of the city. He said non-availability of women MLOs
was also becoming a big issue as most families do not allow a male officer to
perform the postmortem of their female relative. Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz
Ahmed Khokhar, said a request had been sent to authorities concerned of health
department for appointment of male and female MLOs against vacant posts to
overcome the officers shortage.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

Stop rejecting complaints by patients, hospitals told

BYLINE: Denis Campbell, Health correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 696 words


Hospitals will be banned from refusing to investigate complaints from patients
harmed by poor care who may also sue for damages, after campaigners condemned
the practice as an illegal and unfair denial of patients' rights.

Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, is moving to end the situation whereby some
hospitals decide not to look into a complaint or to halt an investigation simply
because the patient or relatives have also launched a lawsuit - or even just
sought legal advice about doing so.

The Department of Health (DH) has agreed to issue new guidance to all NHS
organisations in England telling them to look into all complaints, regardless of
the possibility of being sued. It was forced to act after the patient safety
charity Action against Medical Accidents threatened to seek a judicial review at
the high court.

The charity sought legal advice after patients harmed by medical errors said
they had been warned by hospitals that their complaint would be put on hold if
they went to court or even considered doing so, despite the practice being
outlawed by the DH in 2009. "They had insult added to injury by this denial of
their rights," said Peter Walsh, the group's chief executive. Some hospital
trust websites still state they will not investigate complaints in such
circumstances, even though the NHS constitution says every complaint has to be
looked into properly.

The charity's lawyers told Hunt it had identified "a significant and persistent
problem in that NHS trusts are halting or abandoning investigations into
complaints made under the complaints procedures once there has been any
indication that legal action is being contemplated or will be taken at some
future point". It blamed the DH's "muddled and counterproductive" advice to
trusts on how to implement the 2009 regulations that supposedly ended the
practice.

"Refusing to investigate complaints if people exercise their civil right to take
legal action is deeply unfair and a disgraceful abuse of patients' rights, which
is also totally at odds with government pronouncements about openness," said
Walsh. "The practice of some NHS trusts has been totally unacceptable, seemingly
designed to hide facts that may assist a claimant or deter claims, and totally
contrary to stated policy, which requires hospitals to be open when someone has
been harmed."

The fact that hospitals have been able to reject or ignore grievances has added
to concerns about the complaints system. Patients have described encountering a
wall of silence when they complain, along with staff closing ranks and a refusal
to be honest about what went wrong. The NHS ombudsman recently criticised the
"toxic cocktail of reluctance by patients to complain and defensiveness by
hospitals in handling complaints (which) means concerns and complaints are going
unheard or unaddressed". A review of the system, ordered by David Cameron after
the Mid Staffordshire scandal, is to report soon.

Jeremy Taylor, chief executive of National Voices, which represents health
charities, said: "Patients and families have a clear legal right to have all
complaints investigated as confirmed in the NHS constitution. It is not
acceptable for any organisation providing services to the NHS to breach this
duty. The possibility of legal action does not provide a legitimate reason for
trusts to fail to investigate."

A DH spokesman said: "We expect the NHS to respond to all complaints" in all but
"exceptional circumstances in which a complaint is put on hold because the trust
and complainant have been discussing its timing and handling", he said. This is
often linked to a legal claim.

Meanwhile, Hunt has been accused of backtracking on a key recommendation in the
report into Mid Staffs. Earl Howe, the health minister, confirmed last week that
the "duty of candour" on hospitals proposed by Robert Francis QC, obliging them
to tell patients about mistakes, would only apply to cases resulting in death or
serious injury. Francis had said it should cover those where death or serious
harm "may have" resulted from a blunder.

Captions:

Jeremy Hunt is to ban hospitals from refusing to look at a complaint because the
patient has launched a lawsuit

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                           September 28, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Doctors launch legal bid over surgery move;
Review into planned changes at hospital may cost hundreds of thousands.

BYLINE: Jennifer Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 348 words


SENIOR doctors are to push ahead with a legal challenge over plans to move
surgery out of Wythenshawe hospital.

The judicial review - if it goes ahead - could cost hundreds of thousands of
pounds, with the NHS picking up the bill if it loses.

Doctors argue that decisions made about the hospital's future over the summer
were taken 'unlawfully' and have now issued a legal letter to the region's 12
clinical commissioning groups. They began the process after last-minute talks
with health chiefs broke down.

Their challenge concerns plans to move bluelight abdominal surgery out of the
hospital and into central Manchester - part of the Healthier Together hospital
shake-up.

Along with three local MPs, they claim the consultation process was flawed and
have warned that the move creates a slippery slope, arguing the loss of other
services and problems in recruitment then become inevitable.

A company has now been set up to pursue the action, called Keep Wythenshawe
Special, with solicitors Irwin Mitchell acting on its behalf.

So far none of the consultants behind the move have publicly spoken about the
action, although the director of the new firm is listed as consultant surgeon
Andrew Mac-Donald.

Dr Nigel Guest, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and member of the
Healthier Together Committees in Common, said: "We are extremely disappointed
about this legal challenge, which could cost the NHS hundreds of thousands of
pounds, as well as delay the urgentlyrequired changes needed to improve patient
care."

Healthier Together is aimed at saving lives by concentrating emergency surgery
at four 'specialist' hospitals.

But critics point out Wythenshawe is the region's best-performing hospital in
many regards, so should have been chosen as one of those four, instead of
Stockport's Stepping Hill.

A Wythenshawe spokesman said: "We recognise the clinical concerns raised by our
consultant colleagues and other clinicians. We are working closely with our
consultant colleagues and Healthier Together so that these concerns can be
addressed soon and outside of a lengthy legal process."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wythenshawe hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2015 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

Too big a task to do: PIMS has just one medico-legal expert

LENGTH: 519  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, April 16 -- Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) is short of
medico-legal experts to deal with cases involving police.

It is learnt that the hospital, the largest government-run in the city, has only
one medico-legal expert for three shifts a day.

According to doctors, the hospital should have at least eight experts to ably
handle medico-legal cases.

The severe shortage of medico-legal experts has led to long delays in treatment
of the victims of accidents, torture, firing incidents etc, and issuance of
reports required for FIR registration in such cases.

Such delays torment families, which can't secure bodies of their members until
the issuance of post-mortem certificates.

Under the law, anyone, who gets injured in a car accident or receives a bullet
wound, is required to go to a government hospital for treatment and obtaining
medico-legal certificate for getting an FIR registered.

On the other hand, an aggrieved party cannot receive dead body of a victim until
and unless the medico legal expert issues a post-mortem certificate.

Doctors told Daily Times on Thursday that on average, the hospital received six
to seven medico-legal cases a day but handling them efficiently and without
delay was simply not possible for one person.

They said in absence of adequate number of medico-legal experts, untrained staff
attended to injured persons besides autopsying bodies. They also said as there
was no woman medico-legal expert, female paramedics and technicians with the
help of their male colleagues assessed and treated injuries of women, autopsied
bodies, and issued reports to police for FIR registration.

The doctors also revealed a law enacted in 1861 prohibited post mortems between
dusk and dawn. They demanded immediate repeal of that law for the relief of the
already distressed families.

In the capital city, only PIMS and Polyclinic could issue medico-legal
certificates. A doctor said the city's all government hospitals should be
allowed to issue such certificates.

It is learnt that at Polyclinic, a medical officer dealing with emergency cases
prepares medico-legal report before sending it to medico-legal surgeon for
verification and seal.

In a doctor's opinion, "although it goes like this but the process is flawed
because sometimes, we receive cases of 'self-created' injuries, which cannot be
identified by medical officers. Only a medico-legal surgeon has the expertise to
expose such cases. In absence of such an expert, the medial officer prepares
reports without going into the details, which may put some behind bars."

A station house officer said police couldn't detect 'self-created' injuries. "We
only have to rely on the report issued by a medico-legal surgeon," he said.

He said breaking teeth was a non-bailable offence and people could easily get
the medico-legal certificates by breaking their teeth or finger themselves. The
SHO said only a medico-legal surgeon could determine the facts of injury.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 26, 2016 Monday

Hospital Negligence

LENGTH: 757  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: Legal Resources Organization has issued the following news release:



 If you or a loved one is hospitalized because of an injury or illness, you are
putting your health and safety in the hands of medical professionals.





 From physicians and nurses to orderlies and station assistants, hospitals must
ensure that their staff has been thoroughly trained and that they are following
the policies and procedures that have been put into place. When mistakes are
made that harm the patient, the hospital administration and the medical
professional who treated you can be held liable for medical negligence.



 Examples of medical mistakes that can lead to hospital negligence include the
following:



 Surgical errors

 Failure to obtain informed consent

 Delayed or incorrect diagnosis

 Medication errors

 Anesthesiologist complications

 Hospital infections

 Nursing errors

 In most cases, if a patient is injured because an employee of the hospital acts
incompetently, the hospital will be liable for the patient's injuries. However,
this does not include mistakes made by doctors who are not employees of the
hospital. Non-employee doctors are considered independent contractors, which
means the hospital is not responsible for their medical malpractice. An
exception to this rule is if the hospital gives staff privileges to an
incompetent doctor, or if the hospital did not fully explain to the patient that
the doctor is not a hospital employee.



 Pursuing Legal Action

 If you plan to file a medical malpractice claim against a hospital, you must
prove the following elements.



 The hospital had a duty to you. In most cases, a copy of a test or medical
procedure, or your visit to the emergency room is proof of this element.



 The hospital breached its duty to you. After establishing the accepted standard
of care, a medical malpractice lawyer can prove how the hospital failed to meet
this standard.



 The breach of duty caused your injury. You will only have a valid claim if the
hospital's mistakes caused you harm.

 The hospital's mistakes are the cause of your damages. If the hospital tried to
show that you were responsible for what happened, a medical malpractice lawyer
can help build your case and be prepared to counter the argument.



 Steps to Take When Filing a Medical Malpractice Lawsuit

 Act quickly. If you wait too long to file a claim, the statute of limitations
could run out, and you will be unable to pursue legal action.



 Hire a Medical Malpractice Lawyer. Medical malpractice cases can be extremely
complex, so it is not recommended that you handle the case on your own.



 Determine Whether the Hospital or an Independent Contractor is Negligent. Most
doctors are independent contractors, so if the doctor provided sub-standard
care, you would have to sue to doctor, not the hospital.



 Obtain Medical Records. Request all medical records from the hospital. Every
hospital must keep patient records on file for up to several years.



 Determine Damages. Consider all losses that are connected to the malpractice,
including medical expenses, loss of wages, pain and suffering, and a compromised
quality of life.



 Determine Who is Responsible for the Mistake. When a number of medical
professionals are involved in treating you, you must determine who is
responsible for the medical error. For example, it could be a nurse, a
pharmacist, or an ambulance service, to name a few.



 Comply with the Rules. The patient can speak with their medical malpractice
lawyer to find out if they have to file an affidavit of merit, or submit a claim
to a medical review board before filing in court.



 Draft and File a Complaint. This should include the patient's name, the names
of all parties responsible, a detailed description of the incident including the
harm that was caused, and the dollar amount that the patient expects to receive.




 ABOUT THE AUTHOR: Benjamin Folkman

 Ben Folkman was named, by his peers, New Jersey Super Lawyer for the last seven
years running and Top Lawyer in SJ Magazine for the last six. His $100 million
verdict was listed by the NJ Law Journal as the largest personal injury verdict
for New Jersey in 2009. Licensed to practice law in New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
New York and Washington D.C., Ben Folkman opened Folkman Law Offices, P.C. in
October of 1998. Ben is highly accessible to clients and prides himself on
working diligently to make sure that each and every one of their needs is met.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                              p - SA First Edition

Ex-patient sues surgeon accused of bungled operations

BYLINE: Milanda Rout

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 461 words


A PAST patient of Thomas Kossman, the former head of The Alfred hospital's
trauma unit, is suing the Melbourne doctor for damages over allegedly botched
shoulder surgery.

Joseph Bemelmans has launched legal action against Professor Kossmann in the
Victorian County Court in what is believed to be the first medical negligence
case filed against the surgeon.

The writ emerged a day after law firm Slater and Gordon flagged future legal
claims of negligence against the German-born surgeon and The Alfred hospital by
other former patients.

Professor Kossmann resigned from his position as head of trauma surgery at
Melbourne's Alfred hospital in April after a damning peer review found he had
conducted risky surgery and had exaggerated his experience on his resume.

The three-month investigation, led by orthopedic surgeon Bob Dickens, also found
Professor Kossmann invoiced Victoria's Transport Accident Commission, the
WorkCover Authority and Medicare Australia for operations he did not perform and
surgery that was unnecessary. It also alleged he had put lives at risk with
bungled surgery that involved grave errors in more than half of the 24 cases
that were examined.

Documents lodged with the County Court this week and obtained by The Australian
reveal Mr Bemelmans is suing Professor Kossmann, the operators of The Alfred
hospital, Bayside Health, Epworth Hospital as well as another surgeon, and two
other hospitals for medical negligence.

The statement of claim reveals Mr Bemelmans fell 8m from a ladder on to
``concrete below'' on July 11, 2005, and was taken to The Alfred for treatment,
where he immediately had surgery on his right shoulder. He underwent further
operations -- ``a revision of right shoulder surgery'' -- performed by Professor
Kossmann on August 9, 2005.

Mr Bemelmans alleges in his writ that Professor Kossmann did more operations on
his shoulder between January 12 and March 16, 2006, at the Epworth Hospital.

He then endured further operations conducted by another surgeon at the Masada
Private Hospital and the St Francis Cabrini Hospital on July 5, 2006, and
January 25, 2007.

Mr Bemelmans claims both the surgeons and hospitals ``failed to provide
appropriate treatment and care'' and the failure to do this resulted in their
negligence.

Mr Bemelmans's lawyer Sharon McRae said the legal action was still in the
``preliminary stages'' and that they had not yet served the writ on Professor
Kossmann or the other five parties named in it. ``We have 12 months to serve the
proceeding (on the other parties),'' she said.

Professor Kossmann has denied any wrongdoing and has blamed complaints from
doctors about his surgery on competitive jealousy. A spokeswoman last night said
Professor Kossmann was unaware of any legal action against him.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

Paucity of funds badly affects ASH functions

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 95

LENGTH: 454  words


Scores of medico-legal reports pertaining to the Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH)
are pending as they could not be issued due to non-availability of X-ray films
thus affecting the cases in the relevant courts, it emerged here on Sunday.

Sources in the city health authorities said because of non-availability of X-ray
films the relevant radiologist was unable to give his/her opinion there, the
medico-legal reports could not be issued.

They said in a monthly meeting of criminal justice coordination committee held
in January, the matter relating to medico-legal reports was discussed with polio
surgeon Karachi who in his report informed the committee that 49 medico-legal
reports pertaining to the Abbasi Shaheed Hospital were pending for the
above-mentioned reason.

The number of the pending reports, since then, sources said, had almost doubled,
officials said, adding that due to lack of funds the hospitals medico-legal
section was not just the only underperforming area but the entire hospital was
suffering.

They said various sections of the hospital including MRI, radiology and other
allied facilities were not performing well because of want of funds.

Officials said the working capacity of the ASH had reduced to 25 per cent for
the want of funds, which were not being released by the Sindh government.

The ASH, the largest healthcare facility in control of the Karachi Metropolitan
Corporation (KMC), is beset with many problems. Many of its departments remain
underutilized as it faces a host of administrative and financial difficulties.

Over the years, the number of people visiting the hospitals outpatient
department has declined steadily. The number of people being admitted to its
wards has also shown a decline, with only about one-fourth of its beds being
occupied at any given time, said sources.

The patients and their attendants routinely have to buy medicines from the
market. Officials said the medical superintendent, had been given the power to
authorize expenditure of up to Rs20,000, payment which too is subject to
approval from senior officials. This causes unnecessary delay in payment of
money needed to run the hospital, the sources added.

Officials said the situation relating to the facility had been poor for the past
many years and no meaningful step was being taken to improve the situation.

They said hospital had a capacity of 815 beds. But generally only about 250 beds
were occupied at a given time.

They said the KMC resources were diminishing and the problems and
responsibilities were increasing, therefore, the administration must ensure
running those medical institutions even in worst financial conditions as they
were the only support and ray of hope for the poor and middle class people.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                     Herald

                          September 14, 1988 Wednesday

Force feed our dying daughters, parents plead

LENGTH: 588 words


SYDNEY Two teenage Sydney girls, suffering from anorexia nervosa and dangerously
ill in hospital, are seeking a court ruling to stop them being force fed.

But the parents of the two girls are planning to fight the legal action, fearing
their daughters will die if they win the case and leave hospital.

The Legal Aid Commission is providing counsel for the girls in a bizarre case
which is looming as a legal landmark.

One girl who has been ill for about five years is just pathetically "skin and
bones", hospital orderlies said today.

The girls, 17 and 19, are apparently disillusioned and depressed about life and
have separately told friends "they don't want to live in this world any longer".

All pleas from parents, other relatives and friends have failed to revive their
motivation to live normally.

Both were admitted to the Macquarie Hospital, Sydney, several weeks ago
suffering from the dieter's illness, anorexia nervosa.

Doctors are adamant the disease is one of the mind. But a senior judge has ruled
it does not amount to mental illness.

This has thrown the magistrate, Mr Geoffrey Thomas, into a legal quandary in a
litigious battle over whether the girls should be released from hospital. Mr
Thomas has begun preliminary hearings of the application.

Any legal ruling in their favor may set a precedent for euthanasia, legal
authorities said today.

Macquarie Hospital today would not release details of the girls' treatment.

But other doctors say the normal treatment for dangerously ill victims of
anorexia nervosa was to firmly strap their arms by their side and force feed
them by tube through intravenous injection.

An alternate way was forced stomach feeding.

The parents of the 17-year-old girl, who for moral and legal reasons cannot be
identified, are distressed about the legal battle.

"I just don't know what went wrong, she was full of life, sang and entertained
at social functions.She was a delight to our heart," her mother said.

"She did well at school, played sport and appeared to have everything to live
for. Then suddenly, she developed a fear of putting on weight, refused to eat
and became very ill." The girl's mother said psychiatrists' sessions were no
help.

"We didn't want to bring her to this psychiatric centre, but we were
financially, mentally and emotionally at the end of our resources . . .and there
was just this last hope that here the answer might be found," she said.

"Now this body called legal aid wants to allow her to cast herself out into the
world again, a world we know holds no cure for her.

"There may be some hope here, at least they will keep her alive and functioning
as healthily as possible."

From the magistrate's hearing, expected to be held at the hospital this week,
the matter would go the District Court, then to the Supreme Court.

It would then be finally held at a higher federal jurisdiction in Canberra.

Facts on anorexia nervosa About one teenager in 200 has anorexia, a
psychological and glandular disorder characterised by a pathological fear of
gaining weight.

Some anorexic patients think they are fat even though dangerously thin. Some
will continue dieting even though close to death.

It occurs mostly in teenage girls, but doctors recently have noted it in some
elderly women.

About 50 per cent of patients recover with understanding and counselling. The
rest usually have continued ill-health.

Some doctors have estimated the mortality rate to be as high as 15 per cent.

END OF STORY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHD

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              322 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 9, 2003, Sunday

NO LEGAL BAR TO PREVENT FOUNDATION HOSPITALS BECOMING COMPANIES

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR Milburn: new hospitals will not be
shareholder-led

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words


Health department officials have run legal checks to see whether EU law would
prevent them from converting the new NHS foundation hospitals into companies.

The fact that the inquiry was made will exacerbate concerns on the Labour left
that Tony Blair's zeal for reform could lead to the break up of the NHS.

Legal advisers at the Department of Trade and Industry, who received the
inquiry, said there is no EU law which would prevent St Thomas' Hospital, for
example, from being incorporated as the St Thomas' Hospital Foundation Company.

More than 100 Labour MPs have declared their opposition. They say it would
create a "two-tier"NHS, where the best treatment is reserved for patients at
foundation hospitals.

Their suspicions have been heightened by draft legislation circulating in
Whitehall with the ominous-sounding title of the Health and Social Care
(Foundation Companies) Bill.

The Health Secretary, Alan Milburn, has now ordered it to be changed to the more
innocent-sounding Community Health Care Bill.

A spokesman for Mr Milburn said: "We have talked about the idea of public
interest companies, because there will have to be some sort of legal basis for
these foundation hospitals.

"What they will not be is profit-making companies, or shareholder-led companies.
That was never the case."

Tony Blair and Mr Milburn see it as making the NHS more efficient. The hospitals
will have greater freedom to run their financial affairs - being allowed to
borrow money from private sources. But critics say they would cherry-pick
patients to generate extra cash. One way would be to take on extra private
patients, but Mr Milburn said legislation will set a legal limit.

Another way would be to concentrate on patients who can be treated and
discharged quickly, and refusing to accept chronically or terminally ill
patients, raising concerns that commercial pressures might motivate hospitals to
discharge patients too quickly.

The former health secretary, Frank Dobson, has warned that the Government is now
treading the same path as the Conservatives when they created an "internal
market" in the NHS 15 years ago, a reform which Labour reversed.

He said: "They really haven't listened to any of the objections, the fundamental
objection being that it introduces competition, and we know how harmful
competition was last time."

Blair's other war, pages 16-17

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd


                              323 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               December 10, 1997

Battle to curb the legal aid millionaires

BYLINE: Sandra Laville

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 341 words


THE Lord Chancellor has renewed his attack on fat-cat lawyers by revealing that
barristers are becoming millionaires on the back of the legal aid system.

Many barristers earned nine times the salary of a hospital consultant last year
and some earned nearly five times the wages of a High Court judge from their
legal-aid work.

Lord Irvine's figures showed that 55 barristers were each paid between £203,000
and £575,000 from legal aid last year.

He told peers that 35 barristers received between £270,000 and £575,000 for
criminal work. Another 20 got between £203,000 and £411,000 for civil work, on
top of any fees earned from privately-paying clients.

The figures showed that almost 1,000 barristers earned more from legal aid last
year than hospital consultants are paid.

Signalling a bitter battle ahead with top lawyers in his bid to reform the legal
aid system, Lord Irvine said: "A High Court judge earns £112,011. A lord justice
of appeal earns £124,511. Many hospital consultants earn £56,000-£70,000 a year.
Judges and hospital consultants all work hard over long hours ... The lives of
many people depend on their professionalism. Yet almost 1,000 barristers earned
from legal aid last year more than hospital consultants are paid."

Lord Irvine, himself thought to earn between £500,000 and £1million a year,
pledged to curb barristers' legal aid fees.

He said he would concentrate savings on helping the poor and disadvantaged, and
paid tribute to the lawyers who acted for them.

"These are lawyers who do not become rich.

They act for refugees, asylum seekers, prisoners, mental patients, victims of
abuse and assault."

Lord Irvine plans to abolish legal aid for most money claims next year and
replace them with a no-win no-fee system, backed up by insurance, as part of his
sweeping reform of the legal aid system.

His comments came only months after he outraged senior lawyers by branding them
"fat cats" and warning that they were pricing the public out of the courts.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              324 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    November 21, 1995, Tuesday, City Edition

City seeks mediation on hospital

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



(ran NS, S editions of TAMPA BAY AND STATE)

The City Commission and Health Facilities Authority want to hire a referee  to
settle their disputes with the private foundation that runs Helen Ellis
Memorial Hospital.

Monday they asked the foundation to drop a lawsuit it filed last month  against
the city and agree to let a mediator work out their differences,  avoiding a
costly legal battle.

Both sides already have spent more than $ 100,000 on legal bills in the
dispute. Last week voters overwhelmingly rejected a move by the City  Commission
to sell Helen Ellis, a non-profit, 150-bed hospital.

"This request evidences a good faith effort to resolve the dispute between  the
parties," wrote Barbara Pankau, an attorney for the city, in a letter to  James
Kennedy of Tampa, an attorney for Helen Ellis.

Monday was the deadline for the city to respond to the lawsuit, in which  the
foundation asked a judge to clear up disputes in the foundation's lease of  the
city-owned hospital land and buildings. The foundation's lease with the  city is
through the Health Facilities Authority.

The foundation's lawsuit was in response to an Oct. 5 letter from Pankau
telling the foundation that it risked defaulting on its lease if it didn't pay
more than $ 12,000 in legal fees rung up by the authority in the battle over
the future of the hospital.

The hospital has questioned those legal fees, although Pankau has contended
that it is required to pay them.

Hospital officials couldn't comment late Monday because they hadn't seen  the
city's mediation proposal. But when told about the city's offer, hospital
administrator Joe Kiefer proclaimed it "interesting."

Whether to drop the lawsuit and go to mediation will be a decision of the
hospital's 11-member governing board, Kiefer said.

John Tarapani, chairman of the city's Health Facilities Authority, said  Monday
he hopes the offer will be accepted.

"The city has other things to spend their money on . . . and the  foundation
ought to be spending their money on health-care needs, and neither  one of us
should be spending what we perceive to be public money on large  legal bills,"
he said.

Pankau's letter suggests that the parties share the cost of mediation, with  a
mediator chosen from some place other than Tarpon Springs, such as Orlando  or
Miami. She also suggested that there be two rounds of mediation - one  between
the City Commission and the foundation, the other between the Health  Facilities
Authority and the foundation.

Exactly what issues a professional mediator would try to resolve would be
defined at the start of mediation.

But City Manager Costa Vatikiotis and Pankau offered a few early  suggestions.

The City Commission and Health Facilities Authority need better definitions  of
the roles they will have in governing the hospital. And some changes the
authority wants to make to the hospital's lease have to be discussed.

Those proposed changes include spelling out the authority's right to  terminate
the hospital's lease on 30-days notice once Helen Ellis' debt is  paid off, as
well as making it clear that all assets of the hospital revert to  the city at
the end of the foundation's lease, which expires in 2021.

The changes also would make the hospital's license site-specific so Helen  Ellis
couldn't be moved.

"The clients really are very interested in putting an end to this,"  Pankau
said.

It's not clear yet who would take part in these mediation sessions if they
occur, but Vatikiotis suggested that he and Kiefer might take on that
responsibility.

Also included with Pankau's letter to hospital attorney Kennedy was a court
motion asking that the lawsuit be dismissed. Both were faxed to Kennedy late
Monday afternoon.

Pankau said the city's motion to dismiss was included for procedural  reasons in
case the offer for mediation was refused. Many of the city's  arguments for
dismissal are based on legal technical errors it says are in the  foundation's
lawsuit.

Commissioner Cindy Domino, who has supported the hospital and not her  fellow
commissioners in this debate over Helen Ellis, said she liked the  mediation
idea.

"I think it's a great idea and it's one I would encourage," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; TAMPA BAY AND STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); CINDY DOMINO (ran CT, NT); COSTA VATIKIOTIS
(ran CT, NT)

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


                              325 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

HOSPITALS TOLD: PROBE ALL COMPLAINTS

BYLINE: BY NICK MCDERMOTT SCIENCE REPORTER

LENGTH: 271 words


HOSPITALS must investigate allegations of medical blunders - even if it exposes
them to the threat of legal action.

Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said the NHS was obliged to respond to all patient
complaints of poor care.

The guidance came as it emerged some hospitals have refused to investigate
concerns or halted inquiries, even if the aggrieved parties only sought legal
advice.

The practice should have been banned in 2009, so that hospitals could not use
concerns over a potential claim as a reason to deny an investigation.

But health campaigners say confusing NHS guidance has allowed some hospitals to
ignore patient grievances in the face of costly legal claims.

Now Mr Hunt has agreed to issue new regulations after lawyers for the charity
Action against Medical Accidents threatened to take the matter to judicial
review. Hospitals will have to look into all complaints, regardless of the
possibility of future legal action.

Peter Walsh, the charity's chief executive, said: It's a good step that Jeremy
Hunt has decided to issue fresh guidance. We have been promised we will be able
to help draft the new guidance to hospitals making it absolutely crystal clear
they cannot refuse to investigate a complaint in the face of litigation, or to
avoid a possible future case.'

A Department of Health spokesman said: We expect the NHS to respond to all
complaints raised.

Following the .?.?. terrible events at Mid Staffs we asked Ann Clwyd MP and
Professor Tricia Hart to undertake a review into how NHS organisations handle
complaints. They will report later this autumn and we look forward to seeing
their findings.'

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

See you in court

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 636 words


Campaigners are taking the fight to preserve hospital services to London's High
Court.

Pressure was today mounting on Yorkshire Wolds and Coast Primary Care Trust
(PCT) to stop its planned closure of Hornsea Cottage Hospital's inpatient ward.

The PCT is to close the ward for six months from Sunday, October 1 because of
staff shortages.

But solicitors acting for two patients have told the PCT they will apply to the
High Court for a judicial review if the decision is not reversed by Friday.

London-based law firm Leigh Day and Co has outlined proposed legal action in a
letter to the PCT.

The patients' legal challenge to prevent the closure has been organised by
Beverley and Holderness MP Graham Stuart, who appealed for patients who would be
eligible for legal aid to come forward.

Now, Hornsea residents Jean Waters and Christine Monkman have answered the call
and the solicitors are acting on their behalf.

Mrs Waters, 59, of Pickering Avenue, suffers from a severe breathing complaint,
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).

She said: "The hospital is a lifeline for me. I have been in and out of the
hospital since I was diagnosed with COPD 14 years ago, and it will only get
worse, so I'll need the hospital even more in the future.

"If the ward closed, I would face at least an hour's drive to Hull Royal
Infirmary or Castle Hill Hospital, Cottingham, if I had an attack and was
struggling for breath."

Christine Monkman is currently in the hospital being treated on the
closure-threatened ward.

If granted, the judicial review would look at the legality of the PCT's closure
plan, examining whether the correct procedures were followed.

The solicitors argue the PCT did not meet legal requirements, as the closure
decision was taken without consulting patients or East Riding Council's NHS
overview and scrutiny committee.

Their letter to the PCT states that unless it confirms it is reversing the
decision by Friday, the patients will apply for a judicial review and "interim
relief will be sought to reinstate admissions to the hospital".

MP Graham Stuart thanked everyone who got in touch with him about the legal
challenge and added: "It is reassuring to know people feel so strongly about
their community hospital and we hope to get the  decision overturned."

Ten of the ward's 22 beds were closed earlier this year. There were 92
admissions from January to June.

East Riding Council's overview and scrutiny committee met yesterday and decided
to ask the PCT to go out to public consultation on the closure.

Committee chairman Councillor Rowan Blake-James said: "We appreciate the PCT is
in a nightmare scenario trying to balance the books, but the proposal is a
substantial variation on the trust's turnaround plan, which did not mention bed
or hospital closures.

"We are entrusted with a role to represent the community and, on balance, we
will be requesting a public consultation."

PCT chairman Karen Knapton told the committee: "Hand on heart, it was not our
intention to temporarily close the ward.

"But we cannot look at beds in Hornsea Cottage Hospital in total isolation - we
have to look at the bigger picture across the area. This is about having things
clinically safe for all staff and patients, and managing the budget."

Unions acting for 60 staff at the hospital say they are angry they were not
consulted.

John Fleming, regional officer for public sector trade union Unison, said: "We
have advised staff not to co-operate with the PCT over any temporary positions
they may be offered until the ward is re-opened. The unions are also calling for
meaningful talks with the trust to get this devastating decision reversed."

Other unions involved in the action are Amicus and the Royal College of Nursing.

d.taylor@hdmp.co.uk

Links

Unison

www.unison.org.uk

Yorkshire Wolds and Coast PCT

www.eastridingpcts.nhs.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            October 31, 2014 Friday

Former Bath Community Hospital doctor takes legal action against CEO, board
members

LENGTH: 120  words


A doctor at the center of a controversy in Bath County is now taking legal
action.
Dr. James Redington filed a 20-page civil suit Thursday afternoon in Bath
County, according to a court clerk.


The complaint names Redington's Bath Community Hospital as well the hospital's
current CEO and board members David Troast and Sarah McWilliams.
Redington is asking for $5 million dollars from each of the four defendants and
hundreds of thousands more in punitive damages.
Redington's complaint stems from the Bath Community Hospital board's decision to
not renew his contract.
Hundreds of residents have spoken out about his termination. A handful of other
doctors have resigned from the hospital as well. 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Exeter Express and Echo

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

Legal fight in offing over hospital bed cuts

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 14-15

LENGTH: 715  words


TWO legal challenges could be made in the fight to reverse a decision to close
inpatient beds at community hospitals in Devon.

Following the NHS Your Future Care consultation, health commissioners
controversially voted in March to halve the number of inpatient beds in mid and
east Devon, and instead improve care for people at home. Members of the
governing body of NHS Northern, Eastern and Western Devon Clinical Commissioning
Group  opted to reduce the number of beds from 143 to 72, equating to a loss of
71 beds at community hospital beds in Exeter, Seaton, Honiton and Okehampton.

Two separate applications could be made for judicial reviews, the first by the
Royal College of Nursing who have confirmed they are seeking legal advice.

The second is by members of the Save our Hospital Services Honiton Steering
Group, supported by Honiton Hospital League of Friends, who have set up a
JustGiving page to raise £20,500 to pay for a judicial review into the bed
closures.

The steering group has appointed an experienced judicial review barrister who
has said there are two counts on which one could be proposed - illegality of
process and human rights.

Heather Penwarden, chairman of Honiton Hospital League of Friends, said: "A
pre-action letter has been written to NEW Devon CCG which they responded to last
Friday.

"Our legal team has gone through the letter and issued another response asking
for further details of things we are unclear about. They had until May 19 to
respond to it.

"In their last letter, the CCG maintained their position that it is cheaper to
look after people out of hospital, and that they will have adequate services up
and running before closing beds.

"We will then be advised to see if we feel there is a case for a judicial
review. As of yet we don't know what the outcome will be. We are not setting
ourselves up against neighbouring hospitals. We are challenging the whole
process and the total reduction of beds."

To help with the early stages of looking whether to launch a judicial review,
Honiton campaigners have been given £100,000 by Otter Nurseries in Ottery St
Mary, a community which has already lost its hospital beds and was reassured by
the CCG patients could go to Honiton which is now also losing its beds. The
donation has been matched by the Honiton Hospital League of Friends.

On the JustGiving page, which has so far raised just over £1,150, it says: "This
decision followed from a flawed consultation process based on the document Your
Future Care in which Honiton Hospital was not one of the options.

"In addition CCG are unable to explain how they will implement their proposed
new model of care in the community, the costs that will accrue nor how they will
safeguard the sick and vulnerable."

Funding has also come in from further public donations.

Heather added: "Crowdfunding has given us a little bit more money, but a lot of
people have preferred dropping in cheques or money into the hospital which has
so far given us another £5,000 in donations."

It has been reported that Seaton Town Council has abandoned plans to seek a
judicial review over the closure of its local NHS hospital beds, saying it would
be too expensive.

At a recent meeting, members heard the potential cost of such a legal challenge
to the NEW CCG's decision would be at least £100,000.

Neither Seaton Town Council or Seaton Hospital League of Friends said it was in
a financial position to underwrite the cost pending public donations.

However, the council and the league of friends have said they will continue to
fight the decision.

A spokesman for NEW Devon CCG said: "The CCG can confirm that at this point in
time no judicial review proceedings have been received in relation to the Your
Future Care consultation and our decision to implement changes.

"We are currently responding to correspondence in the appropriate manner. We are
currently undertaking the planning work necessary for implementing the changes.

"We have always been clear that no beds will close until we are assured that it
is safe to do so. This assurance will be sought from a panel involving GPs,
consultant geriatricians and others who will review the readiness to implement
the changes."

To make a donation to the Honiton campaigners visit
www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/honitonhospitalbeds.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 29, 2002, Tuesday

I ALMOST LOST MY LEG;
 SUPERBUG VICTIMS TO LAUNCH MULTI-MILLION POUND LAWSUIT

BYLINE: Krysia Diver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1086 words


BIRMINGHAM victims of the MRSA hospital superbug are joining forces to launch
what may amount to a million pound legal suit against an NHS trust.

The nine-strong group, who have lost relatives to the bug or have been left
crippled or without limbs, wants to take legal action against the University
Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust, which has the highest rates of the deadly bug in
the UK.

It will be the first time a group legal action involving MRSA victims is fought
in this country.

The legal battle is looming after Dave Moran claimed this week that he had
almost lost a leg to the bug at Selly Oak Hospital, which is covered by the
Trust.

His story led to a series of calls from other MRSA victims, who until now felt
they werefighting a solitary battle against the Trust. Mr Moran, aged 27, of
Kings Heath, said today: 'I never anticipated that my story would provoke such a
reaction.

'It is regrettable that this is being brought to the attention of the media, but
when you put your trust in the system and it fails you, you have to resort to
other means.'

Jonathan Peacock, medical negligence specialist at Birmingham-based solicitors
Irwin Mitchell, said: 'Never before has it been logistically possible for a
group of people with MRSA to get in touch with each other like this.

'It has always been something we have been very keen to do, especially if it can
be proven that one particular Trust has put people at risk.' He added that the
group could be in with a chance of receiving in excess of pounds 1million.

Denise Burns, whose grandmother died in April after contracting MRSA at Selly
Oak Hospital, said: 'This is great news. We were thinking about taking out legal
action for some time, but didn't know how to go about it.

'At last, someone is willing to stand up for us.'

A spokesman for the Birmingham University Hospital Trust said today: 'If these
people are taking legal action, we will be seeking advice from our legal
department.

'If anyone has any concerns, we have a patient advice and liaison service in
place to answer queries, which is a quicker and cheaper way than taking out
legal action.'

She added that rates of MRSA at the Trust had dropped by 50 per cent and its
hospitals had infection control programmes in place to help combat the bug.

MRSA is a bacterium carried by 30 per cent of the population and which is
resistant to the antibiotic methicillin.

In healthy people, it is harmless, but it can cause fever or pneumonia in the
elderly, weak or those with a suppressed immune system.

1 CASE

Dave Moran, 27, a computer technician, of Kings Heath.

Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital after breaking his leg in 2000.

Contracted MRSA, lost four stone in weight and was told he might have to have
his leg amputated. He said: 'I hope ultimately that by bringing this into the
public eye, something will be done to improve conditions in hospitals.'

CASE 2

Alan Moles, 72, of Druids Heath Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital for a broken
ankle in October 1998.

Contracted MRSA and was detained for 15 weeks. He ended up having his leg
amputated.

His wife Sylvia claimed: 'The way MRSA was travelling was horrific. My husband
was perfectly fine, but he caught the bug and was bombarded with antibiotics.
'The bug ate away all the flesh from around his leg and he ended up having to
have it amputated.

'It was a huge shock and my poor husband has never really got over it.'

CASE 3

Tony Field, 62, financial advisor, of Northfield Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital
after breaking his leg in June 2000.

Contracted MRSA at the hospital. His leg still weeps and he walks with crutches.
Mr Field claimed: 'I was fine before I went to Selly Oak. 'Then I caught MRSA
and now the doctors say it's possible that I will never walk properly again,' he
added.

'I've had to give up my job and the surgeons won't operate on my leg until the
MRSA has been defeated.'

CASE 4

Catherine Cahill, 73, of Hall Green Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital for a simple
skin graft operation in September 2001 Contracted MRSA and was given 24 hours to
live.

Managed to fight off the bug after five weeks in hospital, but died in April
2002.

Her daughter Denise Burns claimed: 'She got a raging temperature and was
hospitalised for five weeks for what should have been a minor operation. 'I
wasn't surprised she caught MRSA, because she was sleeping in blood-stained
sheets at the hospital.'

CASE 5

Ron Jones 65, a teacher, of Northfield Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital for a
minor tumour operation in 1995. Contracted MRSA and died one week later.

Mrs Jones claimed: 'The operation was successful and my husband was shaving and
looking forward to coming home. 'But he developed MRSA and was kept in. 'The
hospital staff were very vague about the whole thing and only said he was not
getting enough oxygen.

'It was only later that it emerged that he had MRSA.'

CASE 6

Gerry Tyrell, 47, of Kings Heath Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital after falling
into a coma following a fall in May 2001.

Regained consciousness after three days, but contracted MRSA.

Died in May 2002 after being unable to fight off three bouts of the superbug.

His wife Pat claimed: 'He was doing so well, but then he caught MRSA and was
terribly poorly.

'The nurses wouldn't tell me what was wrong and it wasn't until I looked at
Gerry's medical notes that I realised it was MRSA.'

CASE 7

Terence Pell, 43, former scaffolder, of Kings Heath Admitted to Selly Oak
Hospital for leg and head injuries in November 1999. Contracted MRSA and was
detained in hospital for seven months.

Mr Pell is now housebound and will never work again.

He claimed: 'MRSA was all taboo and hush-hush. My medical records refer to MRSA,
but they don't reveal how I caught it.

I went in hospital with a simple leg fracture, but the bug really got to me and
I had to have a cage put on my leg and a muscle transplant operation.'

CASE 8

James Emmison, 69, a former brick layer, of Northfield.

Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital with a broken toe in February 1998.

Contracted MRSA and had both legs amputated before dying of cancer in July 2000.

A family member, who asked not to be named, claimed: 'He went in with a broken
toe, but it wouldn't heal, so they gave him a maggot treatment to eat away the
rotten flesh.

'Then the doctors told me it was MRSA. He had one leg amputated and then the
other. The whole thing was abominable.'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              330 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            The Press (Christchurch)

                            August 1, 2000, Tuesday

Surgeons seek legal protection

BYLINE: ANDREW Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; National; Pg. 4; REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 229 words


Christchurch Hospital is not affected by the staff shortages that have led
Wellington surgeons to seek legal immunity from medical misadventure claims.

Surgeons at Wellington Hospital have asked Capital Coast Health to grant them
legal immunity from medical misadventure claims and disciplinary action because
they believe nursing shortages are endangering patient safety. Wellington
Hospital has only two-thirds of the 60 nurses it needs to run its intensive care
unit.

Christchurch Hospital Medical Staff Association chairman David Shaw said to his
knowledge that situation was not happening here.

"Things must be getting pretty desperate. I've never heard of any doctor having
to do that before."

He said when there had been staff shortages at Christchurch Hospital in the past
surgeons had stopped operating.

"But we've had an incredibly mild winter in Christchurch so the strain on our
staffing has not been that great."

Canterbury Health chief executive Richard Webb would not comment but said the
situation did not apply here.

Health and Disability Commissioner Ron Paterson was critical of the move by
Wellington surgeons. He said he could empathise with doctors' concerns but they
had a legal and ethical duty to provide care.

"I don't think it's a good look for doctors to say 'we won't practice unless our
butts are covered'," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Fairfax New Zealand


                              331 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                             7 - NSW First Edition

Trauma unit surgeon sued over `botched' operation

BYLINE: Milanda Rout

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 423 words


A PAST patient of Thomas Kossmann, the former head of The Alfred hospital's
trauma unit, is suing the Melbourne doctor for damages over allegedly botched
shoulder surgery.

Joseph Bemelmans has launched legal action against Professor Kossmann in the
Victorian County Court in what is believed to be the first medical negligence
case filed against the surgeon.

The writ emerged a day after law firm Slater & Gordon flagged legal claims of
negligence against the German-born surgeon and The Alfred hospital by other
former patients.

Professor Kossmann resigned from his position as head of trauma surgery at the
Melbourne hospital in April after a damning peer review found he had conducted
risky surgery and had exaggerated his experience on his resume.

The three-month investigation, led by orthopedic surgeon Bob Dickens, also found
Professor Kossmann invoiced Victoria's Transport Accident Commission, the
WorkCover Authority and Medicare Australia for operations he did not perform and
surgery that was unnecessary. It also alleged he had put lives at risk with
bungled surgery that involved grave errors in more than half of the 24 cases
examined.

Documents lodged with the County Court this week and obtained by The Australian
reveal Mr Bemelmans is suing Professor Kossmann, the operators of The Alfred
hospital, Bayside Health, Epworth Hospital as well as another surgeon, and two
other hospitals for medical negligence.

The statement of claim reveals Mr Bemelmans fell 8m from a ladder on to
``concrete below'' on July 11, 2005, and was taken to The Alfred for treatment,
where he immediately had surgery on his right shoulder. He underwent further
operations -- ``a revision of right shoulder surgery'' -- performed by Professor
Kossmann on August 9, 2005.

Mr Bemelmans alleges in his writ that Professor Kossmann did more operations on
his shoulder between January 12 and March 16, 2006, at the Epworth Hospital.

He then endured further operations conducted by another surgeon at the Masada
Private Hospital and the St Francis Cabrini Hospital on July 5, 2006, and
January 25, 2007.

Mr Bemelmans claims both the surgeons and hospitals ``failed to provide
appropriate treatment and care'' and the failure to do this resulted in their
negligence.

His lawyer, Sharon McRae, said the legal action was still in the ``preliminary
stages'' and they had not yet served the writ on Professor Kossmann or the other
five parties named in it.

Professor Kossmann has denied any wrongdoing and has blamed complaints from
doctors about his surgery on jealousy.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                  Long Island Business News (Long Island, NY)

                                  May 18, 2007

Proof burden, consent forms help contain lawsuit epidemic

BYLINE: Claude Solnik

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367  words


In a litigation-mad nation, you'd think an estimated 100,000 annual deaths from
infections incurred in hospitals would prompt a lawsuit epidemic, but that's not
the case.

There are many reasons why families rarely sue in such instances - and why
lawyers rarely take such cases.

At the top of the list: Even if someone contracts an infection in a hospital,
it's extremely difficult to prove negligence. Jack Genser, a member of Melville
law firm Genser, Dubow, Genser & Cona, said that's just one of several
significant obstacles to winning such suits.

"Overcoming your burden of proof in finding the genesis of the infection is so
incredibly difficult," said Genser, whose grandmother died of pneumonia
contracted during a hospital stay.

Also on the list: People in hospitals often have compromised immune systems,
making them susceptible to infection even when proper procedures are followed.
And most hospitals have built-in legal protection in the form of consent forms
signed by patients and physicians, stating patients are apprised of risks
including infection.

Maureen Daly, who believes her mother died from a hospital-acquired infection,
didn't sue the hospital. "It feels like the hospitals are covered," she said.
"They're protected, and the patients are not. "

Kevin Dahill, chief executive of the Hauppauge-based Nassau Suffolk Hospital
Council, said patients don't sign away their right to sue simply because they
sign a consent form. If a doctor or other hospital staffer is negligent, Dahill
said, it's possible to win in court.

Daly said a hospital administrator told her the only way she would find out how
the hospital thinks her mother contracted the infection would be through a court
order. She said she contacted a hospital risk manager whom she believed could
help her, but "later found out her job was to prevent the hospital from being
sued. "

"She was not on our side at all," Daly said.

Dahill said that kind of hard-line approach is not the best practice. "It's a
very ill-informed way of handling it," he said. "I think it's a remnant of a
years-gone-by practice that hopefully will disappear. It makes the patient and
family more angry and leaves them with no choice but to sue. "

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                            November 1, 2013 Friday

Medical negligence claims skyrocket

BYLINE: Estelle Ellis

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 933 words


East Cape Health Department facing 311 lawsuits totalling a massive R876m this
year
 Medical negligence claims skyrocket

 LEGAL claims against the Eastern Cape Health Department have shot up from
R4.5-million in 2004 to a staggering R876-million this year.


 Most of the cases involve alleged medical negligence.
 Dodgy lawyers are also allegedly colluding with nurses and porters to copy or
steal patients' files.
 Lawyers and activists, however, say the disclosures are just an attempt by the
department to deflect attention from the rapidly deteriorating state of
healthcare in the province.
 According to the health department's statistics, legal claims - including
letters of demand from lawyers and summonses - this year totalled R876-million
in 311 cases.
 All of them are still in various stages of the legal process and have not been
settled yet.
 Of the total, claims in Port Elizabeth totalling R26-million were instituted
against Dora Nginza Hospital, R9.3-million against Livingstone Hospital and
R595000 against the Provincial Hospital. Claims to the value of R154000 were
lodged against the Uitenhage Provincial Hospital.

 Earlier this year, the department agreed to pay damages totalling R5.7-million
to a Gelvandale family after the negligence of doctors and nurses at Dora Nginza
left their five- year-old child severely brain damaged.
 In another case, the department also settled with Greenbushes resident Heidi
Vena, who lost her twins in 2006 after she was made to wait for hours because
nurses were "on a tea break".
 In a landmark case for patient rights in South Africa, the government has also
agreed to pay R50000 in damages to a Bethelsdorp woman after she was treated in
an "inhumane and contemptuous manner" by nursing staff at Dora Nginza in 2006.
 Due to the time it takes to bring civil matters against the health department
to court, cases from 2005 to 2007 are only now being finalised by the high
court.
 The highest lawsuit brought against the department since April is for
R30-million. In this case, a woman allegedly received poor postnatal care at the
Butterworth Hospital that permanently damaged her bladder.
 Health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the avalanche of legal claims against the
department was so bad the government was considering establishing a compensation
body that would cut out lawyers from the compensation process for medical
negligence in public hospitals altogether.
 Fears were that since control over the Road Accident Fund had been tightened,
lawyers were targeting the health department.
 Kupelo said the escalating number of civil claims against hospitals had a
severe impact on hospital operations as the damages were paid from their
operating budgets.
 He said several Port Elizabeth lawyers were among those being investigated in a
three-year province- wide probe into the payment of nurses and porters to steal
medical records.
 In one case of collusion, a nurse at St Elizabeth Hospital in Lusikisiki was
dismissed earlier this year for stealing patient files for lawyers.
 Kupelo said hospitals could not defend themselves without the patient records.

 The problem was, however, much broader, with patients allegedly being duped
into being assessed by other doctors so the lawyers could use the information to
make claims against the hospitals.
 The department was worried that a situation could arise where nurses
deliberately left foreign objects inside patients to create grounds for
lawsuits.
 Kupelo said ongoing and sometimes frivolous lawsuits were a huge drain on
resources.
 Last month, Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, in a written reply to
parliament, called the escalation in medical legal claims a crisis, saying it
posed a serious threat to the survival of private and public healthcare.
 In a recent edition of the South African Medical Journal, Graham Howarth, the
medico-legal adviser and head of Medical Services for Africa at the Medical
Protection Society in the United Kingdom, said the trend was also apparent in
the private sector, with obstetricians particularly hard hit.
 "By the end of the decade, [insurance for obstetricians] will probably be too
expensive for doctors in private practice," he said.
 "Non-indemnified doctors will be unable or unwilling to do private deliveries
... and women will inevitably be forced to deliver in provincial facilities,
shifting the workload and liability to the state.
 "The South African government, which has already started to investigate the
problem, will have to make some difficult decisions quickly."
 Medical legal expert lawyer Francois Swanepoel said the dropping standards of
care in state hospitals had definitely contributed to the increase in claims.
 He said he was more concerned by the department's wasteful and fruitless legal
expenses incurred by fighting cases where there was no real defence.
 Daygan Eager, from the Rural Advocacy Health Project, said it was easier now
for patients to sue the health department as lawyers were allowed to take cases
on a contingency basis, which they could not do before.
 He said the claims reflected the massive systemic problem in the Eastern Cape
Health Department.
 "I think the MEC [Sicelo Gqobana] should look at those figures and figure out
what can be done to support healthcare providers better as most of them work in
very difficult positions.
 "Before launching an investigation into the attorneys, he should deal with the
pressing public health issues in the province, which is something we haven't
seen him address. He is trying to shift the focus away from the department's
failure to fix the system," Eager said.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                            November 1, 2013 Friday

Medical negligence claims skyrocket

BYLINE: Estelle Ellis

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 933 words


East Cape Health Department facing 311 lawsuits totalling a massive R876m this
year
 Medical negligence claims skyrocket

 LEGAL claims against the Eastern Cape Health Department have shot up from
R4.5-million in 2004 to a staggering R876-million this year.


 Most of the cases involve alleged medical negligence.
 Dodgy lawyers are also allegedly colluding with nurses and porters to copy or
steal patients' files.
 Lawyers and activists, however, say the disclosures are just an attempt by the
department to deflect attention from the rapidly deteriorating state of
healthcare in the province.
 According to the health department's statistics, legal claims - including
letters of demand from lawyers and summonses - this year totalled R876-million
in 311 cases.
 All of them are still in various stages of the legal process and have not been
settled yet.
 Of the total, claims in Port Elizabeth totalling R26-million were instituted
against Dora Nginza Hospital, R9.3-million against Livingstone Hospital and
R595000 against the Provincial Hospital. Claims to the value of R154000 were
lodged against the Uitenhage Provincial Hospital.

 Earlier this year, the department agreed to pay damages totalling R5.7-million
to a Gelvandale family after the negligence of doctors and nurses at Dora Nginza
left their five- year-old child severely brain damaged.
 In another case, the department also settled with Greenbushes resident Heidi
Vena, who lost her twins in 2006 after she was made to wait for hours because
nurses were "on a tea break".
 In a landmark case for patient rights in South Africa, the government has also
agreed to pay R50000 in damages to a Bethelsdorp woman after she was treated in
an "inhumane and contemptuous manner" by nursing staff at Dora Nginza in 2006.
 Due to the time it takes to bring civil matters against the health department
to court, cases from 2005 to 2007 are only now being finalised by the high
court.
 The highest lawsuit brought against the department since April is for
R30-million. In this case, a woman allegedly received poor postnatal care at the
Butterworth Hospital that permanently damaged her bladder.
 Health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the avalanche of legal claims against the
department was so bad the government was considering establishing a compensation
body that would cut out lawyers from the compensation process for medical
negligence in public hospitals altogether.
 Fears were that since control over the Road Accident Fund had been tightened,
lawyers were targeting the health department.
 Kupelo said the escalating number of civil claims against hospitals had a
severe impact on hospital operations as the damages were paid from their
operating budgets.
 He said several Port Elizabeth lawyers were among those being investigated in a
three-year province- wide probe into the payment of nurses and porters to steal
medical records.
 In one case of collusion, a nurse at St Elizabeth Hospital in Lusikisiki was
dismissed earlier this year for stealing patient files for lawyers.
 Kupelo said hospitals could not defend themselves without the patient records.

 The problem was, however, much broader, with patients allegedly being duped
into being assessed by other doctors so the lawyers could use the information to
make claims against the hospitals.
 The department was worried that a situation could arise where nurses
deliberately left foreign objects inside patients to create grounds for
lawsuits.
 Kupelo said ongoing and sometimes frivolous lawsuits were a huge drain on
resources.
 Last month, Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, in a written reply to
parliament, called the escalation in medical legal claims a crisis, saying it
posed a serious threat to the survival of private and public healthcare.
 In a recent edition of the South African Medical Journal, Graham Howarth, the
medico-legal adviser and head of Medical Services for Africa at the Medical
Protection Society in the United Kingdom, said the trend was also apparent in
the private sector, with obstetricians particularly hard hit.
 "By the end of the decade, [insurance for obstetricians] will probably be too
expensive for doctors in private practice," he said.
 "Non-indemnified doctors will be unable or unwilling to do private deliveries
... and women will inevitably be forced to deliver in provincial facilities,
shifting the workload and liability to the state.
 "The South African government, which has already started to investigate the
problem, will have to make some difficult decisions quickly."
 Medical legal expert lawyer Francois Swanepoel said the dropping standards of
care in state hospitals had definitely contributed to the increase in claims.
 He said he was more concerned by the department's wasteful and fruitless legal
expenses incurred by fighting cases where there was no real defence.
 Daygan Eager, from the Rural Advocacy Health Project, said it was easier now
for patients to sue the health department as lawyers were allowed to take cases
on a contingency basis, which they could not do before.
 He said the claims reflected the massive systemic problem in the Eastern Cape
Health Department.
 "I think the MEC [Sicelo Gqobana] should look at those figures and figure out
what can be done to support healthcare providers better as most of them work in
very difficult positions.
 "Before launching an investigation into the attorneys, he should deal with the
pressing public health issues in the province, which is something we haven't
seen him address. He is trying to shift the focus away from the department's
failure to fix the system," Eager said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           September 11, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Legal bill could ruin nurse in beds fight

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 419 words


A former nurse will go to the High Court today in a legal action to save
hospital beds - and faces financial ruin if she loses her case.

Pensioner Pat Morris could be landed with a legal bill of pounds 80,000 after
heading a campaign against cost-cutting hospital bosses.

Mrs Morris, aged 65, has mounted the legal challenge against the closure of two
rehabilitation wards, 26 beds, for older people at Altrincham General Hospital
near Manchester.

She hoped to be granted legal aid but has been told her application has been
turned down - so she must meet the legal bills herself.

She said that although she has a state pension of just pounds 34, because her
husband has a pension she does not qualify for legal aid.

Despite an appeal to the Legal Services Commission, which administers Legal Aid,
it rejected the request by Health in Trafford - a protest group headed by Mrs
Morris.

If the judge at the High Court in London rules in favour of the hospital bosses,
Mrs Morris will be landed with the pounds 80,000 bill to pay for the legal costs
of the health trust and the court for staging the judicial review.

Mrs Morris said: "I will worry about the bill later, I can only deal with one
thing at a time. Think of the financial costs against the physical costs - the
hardship of those beds being closed to the elderly within Altrincham, the
hardship they have to go through when they become ill.

"How can you put financial costs against human costs?"

Mrs Morris will be at the High Court to hear her barrister, acting for free,
argue that Trafford Healthcare Trust "unlawfully" closed the last in-patient
wards at Altrincham because they failed to carry out public consultation.

At a preliminary hearing in June, Mr Justice Collins ruled the trust had an
"arguable" case to answer.

Meanwhile, more than 400 nurses and supporters joined in a protest against the
loss of jobs in the NHS in Birmingham on Saturday.

Health workers met outside St Philip's Cathedral and marched to Carrs Lane
Church centre. Organisers said the march was to raise awareness of job cuts in
the health service.

Up to 1,000 hospital posts are to be lost in Staffordshire, and another 800
posts are to be cut at City Hospital in Birmingham and in Sandwell.

Ann Leedham-Smith, from the Royal College of Nursing, who helped organise the
rally, said: "We want to raise awareness about what is happening. There was huge
support through the centre of Birmingham. "The campaign is really touching a
chord with patients and people that the NHS is being sold off."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Gauteng Health Department is coughing up in court: here's whyâ[#x20ac][#x2039];

It may have spent R881â[#x20ac]...million in legal fees this past financial
year, but the provincial government has defended the costs incurred, also saying
that a plan has been formulated to address the massive spending. Shain Germaner
takes a look

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 999 words


THE DA chief whip in the Gauteng legislature, Mike Moriarty, revealed this week
that the consolidation of all government departments' annual reports had
revealed that the province had spent R881m in legal fees, almost double that of
the previous year, when R469m was spent.

"The biggest spender is the Department of Health, whose legal costs increased
from R238m to R569m," said Moriarty, who placed the blame on Gauteng Health MEC
Qedani Mahlangu, labelling her "callous".

DA Gauteng spokesperson for health Jack Bloom also attacked Mahlangu's conduct,
particularly in dealing with negligence claims.

"Her department is expected to pay out about R1â[#x20ac]...billion this year in
settlement of medical negligence cases," he said.

The Department of Education was high on the list in terms of legal fee spending,
dishing out R42m on legal fees and services - up from R27m.

Also a big spender on legal fees was the Infrastructure Development Department,
which incurred R46m.

"Excessive legal claims and legal fees are a natural consequence of an uncaring
and inefficient government that forces citizens and suppliers to take legal
action. As a result, Gauteng's most vulnerable, the poor and unemployed, are
being penalised by delayed service delivery due to budgetary constraints," said
Moriarty.

He blamed Premier David Makhura and the ANC government for spending millions on
billboards claiming clean audits in Gauteng, which he described as a
"smokescreen to cover up the reality that the provincial government is still not
delivering".

However, in a comprehensive response to questions by The Star, the Gauteng
provincial government explained why, in particular, the Department of Health has
incurred such costs.

"It is clear from our own analysis that the departments such as Education,
Health, the police and others account for the bulk of legal claims against the
government as they are at the coalface of government service delivery. It is
important for us to pay particular attention to the Health Department as it
accounts for over half the claims against the government," the statement said.

According to the provincial government, this stems from the fact that Gauteng
runs the biggest public health-care system in the SADC region. The province
services patients from Gauteng as well as adjacent provinces (Free State, North
West, Limpopo and Mpumalanga) at a primary, tertiary and central level. The
province also hosts the highest number of central hospitals, including Chris
Hani Baragwanath, Charlotte Maxeke, Steve Biko and George Mukhari hospitals.

These are then supported by three tertiary hospitals: Helen Joseph, Kalafong and
Tembisa.

According to the provincial government, these hospitals service
7.1â[#x20ac]...million patients annually, as opposed to the 6â[#x20ac]...million
in KwaZulu-Natal, 3â[#x20ac]...million in the Eastern Cape and
2â[#x20ac]...million in the Western Cape.

Because Gauteng remains the country's economic hub, it attracts people searching
for better lives - according to Stats SA, an average of 200â[#x20ac]...000
people migrate to Gauteng every year and 70â[#x20ac]...percent of these are
serviced by the public healthcare system.

The government said the Department of Health has a total of 67â[#x20ac]...000
employees, with a current budget of R37bn.

According to the provincial government's analysis, the reason for such major
spending on legal fees within the Health Department is because of litigation
against the department, the majority of which comes from tertiary and central
hospitals.

"These hospitals deal mainly with complicated and severe ailments. For example,
hospitals such as Chris Hani Baragwanath, which has to deal with complicated
pregnancies referred to it by surrounding clinics. Tembisa and Charlotte Maxeke
hospitals also deal with a lot of referrals," the statement said.

Globally, the three main sources of litigation in the healthcare sector are
negligence, malpractice and adverse events.

According to the provincial government, the main areas of litigation include
obstetrics and gynaecology, neurosurgery, neonatology and orthopaedic surgery.

"The sheer size and shape of our public health system partly explains the high
number of cases against Gauteng. In addition, and like any other public health
system in the world, we also have incidents of malpractice, negligence and
adverse events," it added.

To combat this, the government vowed in its statement to strengthen its human
resource capacity as it tries to fill all vacant posts and appoint competent and
qualified health professionals.

One way to improve these appointments is expected to emerge from a local
partnership with the University of Lancaster in England to train hospital chief
executives in management and leadership.

The department has claimed it is also dealing with incidents of crime,
corruption and collusion within its ranks that have led to legal fee cost
increases.

"We have evidence of instances where files are stolen in order to expose the
department to litigation. Some of the incidents of the stealing of files are
done in collusion with our officials.

"In cases where we find this we do not hesitate to act," the government said.

Last month, two members of a syndicate involved in the theft of files at Chris
Hani Baragwanath Hospital were arrested. The provincial government believes this
syndicate has involved law firms and hospital staff to commit its crimes.

"The modus operandi of some of the syndicates is to target areas such as
cerebral palsy, and head and spine injuries. In these cases the lawyers will
calculate future medical care, housing, special education and contingency fees.

"There is also the distortion of the market by inflating fees when dealing with
government," the statement said.

"The government is taking practical steps to reduce legal spending through
training and retaining skilled personnel, acting decisively where incidents of
negligence are found, mediation of cases wherever possible, and an establishment
of a legal audit project that will systematically co-ordinate work related to
legal claims."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily News (South Africa)

                            January 08, 2008 Tuesday
                                   e1 Edition

Raffle to help pay for HIV bills;
State hospital faces legal action

BYLINE: Karyn Maughan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 585 words


The mother of a 9-year-old twin girl allegedly infected with HIV in a state
hospital has as a last resort turned to selling raffle tickets to help pay her
daughter's medical bills.

Now they wait to take legal action over Anna's HIV infection.

Amid constant threats from debt collectors over Anna's* R30 000 medical bills,
her mother and relatives are battling to sell 600 tickets that will help to
cover the costs of her treatment, medication and blood tests.

"I've only managed to sell 15 tickets because a lot of people seem to think that
I'm running some kind of scam ... but I'll keep trying because I don't know what
else to do," Anna's mother said.

Anna is one of 42 babies and children suspected to have been accidentally
infected with HIV during their stay in hospitals, mostly state-owned, because of
allegedly inadequate infection controls.

Register

Although the Health Department has not established a register of hospital
-acquired HIV infections, spokesman Sibani Mngadi said the risk of such
infections was now significantly reduced because of improved infection
prevention at state hospitals.

After discovering their daughter was HIV-positive in May last year, Anna's
parents consulted forensic experts to establish when and how their child was
infected. They are now preparing to take legal action over Anna's infection.

According to records from Karl Bremer Hospital, where Anna was born in October
1999, she weighed only 200g less than her twin sister.

She also had an underdeveloped lung, forcing her to spend extra time at Karl
Bremer and Groote Schuur hospitals. Three months later, Anna was diagnosed with
pneumonia, and when she was three years old, doctors found a spot on a lung,
which collapsed in September 2005.

In January 2006 she was again battling pneumonia, and high-strength antibiotics
used to treat her were having little impact. Eventually, her doctors decided to
test for HIV and found she had a CD4 count of 100, classifying her as a patient
with Aids.

After being treated with antiretrovirals (ARVs), her condition improved.

The family's worries, however, were far from over.

Anna's parents have themselves been threatened with legal action from debt
collectors for the National Health Laboratory Service, to whom they owe R8 000
for her blood tests.

They also owe Red Cross Children's Hospital in Cape Town more than R20 000 for
their daughter's treatment for viral meningitis and pneumonia, among other
HIV-related illnesses.

"We don't have the money because neither of us is permanently employed, but even
if we did, I feel angry that we have to pay for what we strongly believe was
someone else's mistake," Anna's mother said. She said she had come to dread the
"never-ending" phone calls from debt collectors.

"I keep trying to explain the situation to them, but each time they tell me they
will take 'further steps' against us if we don't pay."

Anna's mother is worried about the monthly R735 ARV bills she is receiving from
Red Cross Children's Hospital. "They promised to reduce the bill but nothing has
happened."

Hospital spokesman Diana Ross said Anna's parents were welcome to consult the
hospital's financing department about their payment problems.

The pending legal action by Anna's parents comes after a R49 million
Johannesburg High Court claim brought against Health Minister Manto
Tshabalala-Msimang, Chris Hani-Baragwanath Hospital and blood transfusion
authorities by the parents of HIV-positive Baby M, who was allegedly infected
after an operation.

* Not her real name.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ND


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                  2ND Edition

Legalaid blow for hospital opponent;
Campaigner no longer entitled to public funds

BYLINE: LIZA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 543 words


A CAMPAIGNER trying to derail plans to rebuild the Royal Liverpool Hospital was
stripped of legal aid for his high court battle.

Sam Semoff, of the Keep Our NHS Public pressure group, is against the use of
Private Finance Initiative (PFI) cash to pay for the hospital claiming it would
leave the region with huge debts which would impact on future health services.

But now he has been told he will no longer be entitled to public funds to fight
his campaign.

It is understood the decision was made by the Legal Services Commission after
complaints fromprorebuild campaigners.

Last year USA-born Mr Semoff was invited to meet with residents in the
Kensington Fields area close to the hospital. r

When he refused and said another member of the pressure group would attend it
emerged his name was used to launch the bid because an individual qualifies for
legal aid but an organisation does not.

Keep Our NHS Public claims the Royal's rebuild will leave the taxpayer with
crippling debts which must be honoured before any spending on patient care.

But Mr Semoff 's campaign sparked anger among residents and politicians who said
the delay threatened chances of improving facilities at the hospital.

Mr Semoff can now appeal the withdrawal of legal aid. It is not known how much
the challenge is likely to set him back.

Today Mr Semoff insisted the hearing would go ahead next month adding: "We are
awaiting a decision from the Legal Services Commission. We are hopeful it will
continue to fund the case."

But a Legal Services Commission spokesman said: "Legal aid funding was withdrawn
and Mr Semoff is appealing that decision."

Central Cllr Nick Small welcomed the commission's move and said he would ask why
it agreed to fund the challenge in the first place.

He said: "I believe this should not have been funded through legal aid in the
first place. It was a slap in the face to ordinary taxpayers living in
Kensington Fields and across the city.

"I will now be writing to the LSC to ask it to investigate why legal aid was
granted."

Kensington Fields resident Tony Graham, 59, sat on the stakeholders' group which
looked into the plan for the Royal.

He said the rebuild was desperately needed.

He added: "The care is fine but the environment is not.

"The toilets are always damaged and not working, the floors are rising because
of what they call 'concrete cancer', and it seems virtually impossible to keep
it clean.

"When you look at the way the Edge Lane scheme was delayed it ended up costing a
lot of money and time."

Royal chief executive Tony Bell said: "We were made aware by our solicitors of
the withdrawal of legal aid for the judicial review claim against the new
hospital.

"But we are also aware an appeal was made against this decision.

"We are cautiously optimistic the previous ruling of Mr Justice Burnett will be
upheld in the forthcoming hearing still to take place on Friday February 11.

"The legal challenge so far has proved both costly and time-consuming. We are
hopeful we shall soon be able to move forward with our bidders on our plans to
build the new Royal. Any further comment by us at this stage would not be
helpful. But we recognise this has been amatter of serious concern to people
across the city."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PROBE: Cllr Nick Small wants an inquiry BLOW: Sam Semoff had his legal
aid application turned down

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           September 9, 2014, Tuesday

Psych hospitals case `devolved,' lawyer says

BYLINE: Eric Eyre, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P5A

LENGTH: 610 words


A decades-old lawsuit that pits patients at West Virginia's two state-run
psychiatric hospitals against the Department of Health and Human Resources has
"gone backwards in recent months, a lawyer for the patients told state lawmakers
Monday.

About a year ago, lawyers on both sides were talking about "winding down the
case, but those discussions were derailed after DHHR abruptly barred patient
advocates at the state hospitals from pulling patient records, said Lydia
Milnes, a lawyer with Mountain State Justice.

"It seems as though things have devolved over this last year, Milnes told
members of a joint House-Senate health oversight committee. "There's been a loss
of trust among various entities that have to work together to make the system
work for the patient. Unfortunately, the result is we've gone backwards.

The case, E.H. v. Matin, also called the "Hartley case, has dragged on since
1981. The dispute centers on staffing shortages and patient care at William R.
Sharpe Hospital in Weston, and Mildred Mitchell Bateman Hospital in Huntington.

Kanawha Circuit Court Judge Duke Bloom has issued several recent orders stemming
from the case. DHHR has appealed those rulings to the state Supreme Court.

Milnes said DHHR no longer allows patient advocates - hired by Legal Aid - to
quickly review patient medical records during investigations of abuse and
neglect. The advocates have worked at the psychiatric hospitals for 20 years,
helping patients with questions and grievances.

"Legal aid advocates showed up one day [earlier this year], and their access had
been shut off, and they had no idea why, Milnes told state lawmakers.
"Investigations had to be put on hold.

Milnes said the advocates have "a history of being able to discover when there
are important violations occurring at the hospitals.

In 2008, the Legal Aid advocates discovered that doctors at the psychiatric
hospitals were "over-medicating patients intentionally because they had too many
patients and not enough staff and space, Milnes said.

"The fact that there's many people who can't self-advocate highlights the reason
why it's so important to have the Legal Aid advocates there, she said. "There
have been times when the advocates have brought very important things to light.

DHHR lawyer Karen Villanueva-Matkovich said federal health privacy laws restrict
the release of patient records. The advocates still can get copies, if the
psychiatric patients or their guardians sign releases. "We have to protect
individuals' rights to their information, Villanueva-Matkovich said.

Milnes said patient advocates sometimes have just hours to complete
investigations and report findings - and don't have time to wait for releases.
"They need to be able to act quickly, she said. "They need to access records to
know what's going on.

Milnes said the Sharpe and Bateman hospitals continue to struggle to hire
full-time staff, and use temporary and contract employees to fill vacancies.

"They're not able to provide all the services to patients that they're required
to do under state law as a result of these staffing vacancies, Milnes said.

Also Monday, health committee members directed DHHR to determine how much the
state has spent on legal fees over the years on the Hartley case. The committee
wants DHHR to report back on the lawsuit costs later this year.

"It would appear to me at the heart of this issue would be adequate staffing and
adequate care for patients, said Delegate Ricky Moye, D-Raleigh. "It also
appears that 30-some years to take care of adequate staffing and adequate care
is problematic.

Reach Eric Eyre

at ericeyre@wvgazette.com,

304-348-4869 or follow

@ericeyre on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Charleston Newspapers


                              340 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            February 2, 2014 Sunday

MLOs at six more hospitals

SECTION: Vol. LXVIII No. 32

LENGTH: 177  words


The Sindh health department is in the process of posting medico-legal officers
(MLOs) at six more government hospitals to ease the burden on the three major
hospitals - the Abbasi Shaheed Hospital, Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre and
Civil Hospital Karachi - in the metropolis, it emerged on Saturday.

"We are in the process of posting MLOs in six more government hospitals in
Karachi, which could take a few weeks," said a senior official in the provincial
health department while speaking to Dawn.

Officials said the department had promoted a number of doctors from grade- 17 to
18, some of whom were going to be posted as MLOs in the Lyari General Hospital,
Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Govt Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh
Govt Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Govt Qatar Hospital Orangi Town and Sindh Govt
Hospital Korangi.

"Since the situation in the city is consistently volatile and the number of
medico-legal cases have substantially increased over the past three years or so,
it is needed that the burden be shifted elsewhere," said the official.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2014 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 16, 2014 Wednesday

Lee Supervisors Rescind Hospital Funds to Avoid Legal Trouble

BYLINE: Sarah Tomkinson, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


April 16--MONTROSE -- At a meeting Tuesday, Lee County supervisors took back
their vote to give funds to Keokuk Area Hospital due to legal concerns.

Last week, the board approved $103,000 for Keokuk Area Hospital so it could
qualify for state matching funds. The board amended its agenda to approve the
funds, but it did not meet the 24-hour notification rule mandated by the state.

That being the case, Lee County Attorney Mike Short said supervisors needed to
rescind their previous vote approving the funds.

"The idea is we are removing any controversy with any procedural issues," Short
told the board. "Whatever the board decides to do then, procedural, we did
right."

Supervisor Gary Folluo hoped to have the funds approved quickly since the
hospital is in financial trouble.

"When you look at urgency and you have a hospital administrator with only three
days of actual cash at hand, that's a pretty urgent situation. This is just
cleaning up," he said

Chairman Ernie Schiller said approving money transfers such as this one requires
a resolution since it's not considered an annual contribution.

The supervisors set a special meeting at 9 a.m. Thursday at the Lee County jail
complex in Montrose to approve a resolution for the funding,

Last week, Duane Fitch, president of Fitch Healthcare, the consulting company
that manages the Keokuk Hospital, addressed the board and encouraged them to
contribute to the hospital for the second year.

"We are an underfunded agency of the government," he said.

Keokuk also agreed to give similar funds to the hospital.

More than 70 percent of the hospital's patients are on Medicare or Medicaid.

This will be the second year time the board has contributed to the hospital.

Last year, Keokuk Area Hospital received contributions from the county board and
the city of Keokuk to put the funds towards a match program through the Iowa
Department of Human Services and Iowa Medicaid Enterprise.

The hospital will receive more than $490,000 once all the funds are matched.

Financial trouble became persistent in 2011 when hospital officials announced
they were in danger of closing the hospital's doors.

___ (c)2014 The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa) Visit The Hawk Eye (Burlington,
Iowa) at www.thehawkeye.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140416-QW-Lee-Supervisors-Rescind-Hospital-Funds-to-Avoid-Legal
-Trouble-0416-20140416

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QW


                          Copyright 2014 The Hawk Eye


                              342 of 993 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday

Hoke hospital battle a familiar scenario

BYLINE: Jennifer Calhoun, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1342 words


June 30--For nearly two years, signs along U.S. 401 in Hoke County have heralded
the coming of not one, but two new hospitals.

The signs -- posted by competing health care systems Cape Fear Valley and
FirstHealth -- are hopeful and full of promises to residents tired of driving 30
to 40 minutes to be seen in an emergency room or to visit a sick relative.

But as time drags on and the health systems continue to block each other from
building through legal appeals, residents are becoming frustrated.

That frustration came to a head last week when Charles Frock, chief executive
officer of FirstHealth, told the Hoke County Board of Commissioners that legal
wrangling between the two companies could delay a hospital -- any hospital --
for up to 10 years.

Frock then offered to stop appeals and start building if Cape Fear Valley would
do the same.

Cape Fear Valley CEO Mike Nagowski declined, saying FirstHealth's proposed
eight-bed hospital wouldn't fit the needs of Hoke County.

Frock has since said the 10-year time frame could be a worst-case scenario -- a
projection Cape Fear Valley officials said is unrealistic.

"In fact, the Hoke County (Certificate of Need) will be addressed in court this
fall," Cape Fear Valley officials said in a statement Tuesday.

But recent legal battles in nearby Harnett County could mean Frock is not far
off the mark.

Last month, ground was finally broken in Harnett County for a hospital first
planned more than 10 years ago.

However, the $63 million, 50-bed facility wasn't the original hospital that was
planned.

The new hospital started as a replacement facility for the aging and
geographically inconvenient Good Hope Hospital in Erwin.

But Good Hope eventually became mired in a protracted legal battle with a
competing bid from Harnett Health System, a group that includes Betsy Johnson
Regional Hospital in Dunn, the Harnett County commissioners and WakeMed Health
and Hospitals in Raleigh.

Sides were taken, and the community became divided.

In 2008, the legal battle ended when Harnett Health System secured permission to
build the hospital from the state Supreme Court.

But projected groundbreaking dates in 2009 fell through when Harnett Health
couldn't get financing in a tightened economy. Since then, the facility found
financing from the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

"It was a long, arduous, divisive process in Harnett County," said Tim McNeill,
chairman of the county Board of Commissioners. "Some of those people will take
to their grave that they think they were right."

Battle for Hoke

Hoke County's scenario is different, but the legal battles and division in the
community are similar.

The situation started in 2009, when FirstHealth proposed an eight-bed hospital
in Raeford, along U.S. 401.

A few weeks later, Cape Fear Valley Health System proposed a 41-bed hospital in
Cumberland County, near the Hoke County line.

When the state gave permission to both health care systems to build, the two
companies filed appeals to block the other from building.

In 2010, the state rearranged its medical facilities plan, allowing Cape Fear
Valley to build in Hoke County. The health system then proposed a 41-bed
hospital in Hoke, just a few miles down U.S. 401 from FirstHealth's proposed
facility.

The battle intensified in January, when the state recognized the growing need
for additional hospital beds in Hoke and Cumberland counties and added 65 for
the two-county area.

FirstHealth jumped on the plan and proposed a 65-bed hospital in Hoke.

Throughout the ordeal, the two health systems have continued to block the other
from building through legal appeals sanctioned by the state's Certificate of
Need process.

Frock, with FirstHealth, has repeatedly offered to drop appeals so both health
systems can build.

Last week, Frock said FirstHealth would go back to building an eight-bed
facility, if Cape Fear Valley would stop appeals and build its 41-bed hospital.

Cape Fear Valley has continued to refuse.

"We do not oppose a two hospital solution for Hoke County, if it makes sense for
Hoke County," a statement from the health system said. "We certainly know how
our 41-bed, full-service community hospital fits the need of Hoke County, but we
need to better understand how an eight-bed hospital with a helipad is supposed
to serve such a growing community."

In a statement issued Tuesday, Frock said he believed Cape Fear Valley was
"delaying the process so they can figure out how to finance three proposed ...
projects costing more than $200million, as well as deal with competition by a
quality provider such as FirstHealth."

McNeill said he doesn't know how the process will play out in Hoke County, but
he does believe the state's Certificate of Need process could mean residents are
in for a long wait.

Certificate of Need

The Certificate of Need process, or CON, is how the state regulates health care
providers' more expensive acquisitions, such as hospitals and imaging equipment.
The process was set up to make sure the products and facilities are necessary
and that health care providers aren't duplicating services.

Health care providers are required to submit what are called Certificate of Need
proposals, stating in detail what they are building or buying and how much it
will cost. The state reviews the proposals and has 90 to 150 days to make a
decision.

Once a certificate is granted by the state, businesses that could be affected by
the plan can appeal and stop the project from going forward.

It's a process that has some good points, McNeill said, but also wreaked plenty
of havoc in Harnett and could do the same in Hoke.

"The CON process in North Carolina basically sets the stage for these issues to
occur," he said. "Because competing interests want to build, the CON process
forces them to go to court to see who wins."

And when the battle is over, it's usually the citizens who have lost, he said.

"It drives up the cost of new hospitals and also creates a delay in providing
quality health care services for the people," he said.

And while the CON process does have its good points, he said, it still allows "a
bureaucracy to control things, instead of a free market."

In the end, he said, the system isn't likely to change, because "you got a
hospital lobby in North Carolina that likes to keep it that way. It's more or
less like a franchise; it restricts who gets into the business."

"It comes down to who's got the most money, and who can hold out the longest in
court battles," he said.

Growing frustration

For Hoke residents, the wait is a frustrating proposition, especially because
the county is the largest in the state without a hospital, said Tony Hunt,
chairman of the county's Board of Commissioners.

Hunt organized a question-answer session with the competing health systems last
week, during one of the board's regularly scheduled meetings.

Hunt said he and other board members had been repeatedly bombarded with
questions from residents about the hospital problem. During the meeting, Hunt
told the two chief executive officers that he didn't want to drive down the road
in five years and still see no hospital.

"We're just sick and tired of all the legal maneuvering," he said.

The real frustration, however, is the wait for an emergency room and adequate
health care for the growing county, said county Commissioner Ellen McNeill.

"Legally, I really don't know (what could happen,)" she said.

But, she said, it terrifies her to think that lives could be lost in the time it
takes to drive 30 to 45 minutes to hospitals in Pinehurst or Fayetteville.

"How sad and tragic that would be," she said.

Staff writer Gregory Phillips contributed to this report.

Staff writer Jennifer Calhoun can be reached at calhounj@fayobserver.com or
486-3595.

To see more of The Fayetteville Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.fayettevillenc.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Fayetteville
Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110630-FY-Hoke-hospital-battle-a-familiar-scenario-0630-20110630

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2011 The Fayetteville Observer


                              343 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where a Doctor's Visit Can Lead to Help From Legal Aid

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 839 words


It was not the normal stuff of a pediatric exam. As a doctor checked the growth
of Davon Cade's 2-month-old son, he also probed about conditions at home, and
what he heard raised red flags.

Ms. Cade's apartment had leaky windows and plumbing and was infested with
roaches and mold, but the city, she said, had not responded to her complaints.
On top of that, the landlord was evicting her for falling behind on the rent.

Help came through an unexpected route. The doctor referred Ms. Cade to the legal
aid office right inside the pediatric clinic at Cincinnati Children's Hospital.

Within days, a paralegal had secured an inspection that finally forced the
landlord to make repairs, and also got the rent reduced temporarily while Ms.
Cade searched for less expensive housing.

''It got done when the lawyers got involved,'' Ms. Cade said.

Doctors and social workers have long said that medical care alone is not enough
to address the health woes of the poor, which are often related to diet, living
conditions and stress.

The pediatric clinic in Cincinnati is one of 180 medical sites around the
country that now seek to address at least some of these broader issues by
bringing lawyers and doctors -- so often foes in the courtroom -- together into
a close partnership.

In a process being duplicated nationally -- the latest partnership started in
West Virginia in the fall -- the doctors at Children's Hospital, using a
protocol that started 18 months ago, referred 500 patients for legal aid last
year. Some needed help getting food stamps, heating aid or cash welfare that had
been wrongfully denied; some received help with evictions or home repairs;
others got legally mandated help for children with learning disabilities.

The idea was developed in the 1990s by Dr. Barry Zuckerman, chief of pediatrics
at the Boston Medical Center. In recent years it has taken off, mainly in
pediatric centers, although the technique is being tried with cancer and
geriatric patients as well.

''This has transformed the way we think about giving care,'' said Dr. Robert S.
Kahn, a pediatrician at Children's Hospital who helped start the collaboration
with the Legal Aid Society of Greater Cincinnati.

A survey of patients in Dr. Kahn's  clinic, where nearly all are on Medicaid,
found that 28 percent of families had their gas or electricity cut off in the
previous year and that 23 percent had doubled up in housing or had to move to a
cheaper residence. One in seven mothers with infants said they had diluted their
formula to make it last, and one in three said they had sometimes run out of
formula without money to buy more.

The partnerships do more than provide quick access to legal aid, Dr. Zuckerman
said. They alter perspectives for both the medical and legal professions, as
physicians become better at spotting underlying threats to health, and lawyers
engage in what he called ''preventive law.'' The concept has been officially
endorsed by the American Bar Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics.

A recurring concern of hospital executives has been that patients might try to
draw the lawyers into malpractice suits. Dr. Zuckerman said that had not
happened, and the legal aid groups involved say that malpractice was not their
mandate and that they would tell complaining patients to seek advice elsewhere.

A vital first step is teaching doctors how to ask the right questions, said
Elaine Fink, a senior lawyer with the Legal Aid Society who founded the
partnership with Dr. Kahn of Children's Hospital.

''What can a doctor feel comfortable asking in a few seconds that will identify
a legal issue?'' Ms. Fink said. ''It's quite different from an attorney
questioning a client.''

The society helped develop a two-week course that teaches medical interns how to
ask about home life, school and finances during routine exams.

Diana A. of Cincinnati took her prematurely born daughter for her first checkup
in the fall. (She spoke on condition she not be identified because she did not
want her relatives to know of her hardships.) Diana said she had been working as
a home-health aide and had received no paid maternity leave. Her application for
food stamps had inexplicably languished. ''Pretty much all I was eating was
oatmeal,'' she said.

The baby was not gaining the expected weight. Doctors introduced her to Deanna
White,  a paralegal who got Diana baby formula and other aid on the spot, and
food stamps and temporary cash assistance within days. Her daughter is now doing
fine.

Felisa Tremble's 16-year-old son was flunking out of school and she had been
unable to get his learning disabilities properly diagnosed until she took him to
Children's Hospital. A psychiatric nurse called in legal aid and with that help,
Ms. Tremble said, Medicaid paid for a costly neuropsychological exam and the
school developed an individual learning program for her son.

''He likes school now,'' Ms. Tremble said. ''If we hadn't seen the lawyers,
maybe he wouldn't be in school at all.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ciera Jones and her son, Jamari, 4, met with a paralegal for
the Legal Aid Society of Greater Cincinnati at Children's Hospital.
 Dr. Robert S. Kahn and Elaine Fink, a legal aid lawyer, work together to help
poor patients at Children's Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK IRWIN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 993 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2017 LexisNexis, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.,
                              All Rights Reserved
                     LexisNexis® Corporate Affiliations[TM]

                                August 28, 2017

                        Mediclinic International Limited

                                  Strand Road
                               Stellenbosch 7600
                                  South Africa


MAILING ADDRESS:, PO Box 456, Stellenbosch, 7599, South Africa

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (27)218096500
FAX: (27)218864037
URL: www.mediclinic.com
E-MAIL: info@mediclinic.com

FACEBOOK: www.facebook.com/mediclinicsouthernafrica
LINKEDIN: www.linkedin.com/company/medi-clinic
TWITTER: www.twitter.com/MediClinic
YOUTUBE: www.youtube.com/mediclinicsa

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY IDENTIFIERS * * * * * * * * * *
DCA NUMBER: 513681 - 3445239 - 3445239

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
FOUNDED: 1983
PLACE OF INCORPORATION: South Africa
LEGAL STATUS: PUBLIC
ORGANIZATION TYPE: Non-U.S. Subsidiary
EMPLOYEES:
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES:  26,076

IMPORT:  NO
EXPORT:  NO

* * * * * * * * * * CORPORATE STRUCTURE * * * * * * * * * *

ULTIMATE PARENT:  Mediclinic International plc (London, United Kingdom)
IMMEDIATE PARENT:  Mediclinic International plc (London, United Kingdom)

CORPORATE HIERARCHY

* * * * * * * * * * EXECUTIVES * * * * * * * * * *

OFFICER             TITLE TYPE          ROLE(S)             EMAIL/SOCIAL MEDIA
Nkaki Matlala,      Executive           Government/Governme EMAIL:
Dir-Govt & Indus                        nt Affairs          Nkaki.Matlala@medic
Affairs-Southern                        Director            linic.co.za
Africa
David Hadley,       Executive           CEO Within Office   EMAIL:
CEO-Middle East                                             David.Hadley@medicl
                                                            inic.co.za
Biren Valodia,      Executive           Chief Marketing     EMAIL:
CMO-Southern Africa                     Officer             Biren.Valodia@medic
                                                            linic.co.za
Stefan Smuts, Chief Executive           Officer             EMAIL:
Clinical                                                    Stefan.Smuts@medicl
Officer-Southern                                            inic.co.za
Africa
Clara Findlay,      Executive           Legal/Legal Affairs EMAIL:
Exec-Legal                              Officer             Clara.Findlay@medic
Svcs-Southern                                               linic.co.za
Africa
Greg van Wyk,       Executive           Human Resources     EMAIL:
Exec-HR-Southern                        Officer             Greg.vanWyk@medicli
Africa                                                      nic.co.za
Braam Joubert,      Executive           CFO Within Office   EMAIL:
CFO-Southern Africa                                         Braam.Joubert@medic
                                                            linic.co.za
Wimpie Aucamp,      Executive           COO Within Office   EMAIL:
COO-Southern Africa                                         Wimpie.Aucamp@medic
                                                            linic.co.za
Gert C. Hattingh,   Executive           Corporate Secretary EMAIL:
Sec                                                         G.C.Hattingh@medicl
                                                            inic.co.za
Roly Buys,          Executive           Officer             EMAIL:
Exec-Funder Rels &                                          Roly.Buys@mediclini
Contracting-Souther                                         c.co.za
n Africa
Michele Rosso,      Executive           CFO Within Office   EMAIL:
CFO-Middle East                                             Michele.Rosso@medic
                                                            linic.co.za
Raymond Plotz,      Executive           Officer             EMAIL:
Exec-ICT-Southern                                           Raymond.Plotz@medic
Africa                                                      linic.co.za
Magnus Oetiker,     Executive           Officer             EMAIL:
Chief Svcs                                                  Magnus.Oetiker@medi
Officer-Hirslanden                                          clinic.co.za
Andre Steiner,      Executive           COO Within Office   EMAIL:
COO-Hirslanden                                              Andre.Steiner@medic
                                                            linic.co.za


DIRECTOR            TITLE TYPE          ROLE(S)             EMAIL/SOCIAL MEDIA
Edwin Hertzog, Chm  Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                    of Directors        Chairman            Edwin.Hertzog@medic
                                                            linic.co.za

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *
Mediclinic International Limited (JSE: MDC) was founded in 1983 and is
headquartered in Stellenbosch, South Africa. The company is primarily engaged in
the management and operation of hospitals. Its hospitals offer a range of acute
care, specialist-orientated, and multidisciplinary hospital services and related
service offerings. The company has 49 hospitals throughout South Africa and
three in Namibia with more than 7,600 beds. It also has operations in
Switzerland and UAE. As stated in the company's current annual filing it had FYE
03/31/2014 revenue of $2.7 billion and has 26,076 employees.

INDUSTRY TYPE: Hospital Owner & Operator

* * * * * * * * * * MARKET AND INDUSTRY * * * * * * * * * *
NAICS CODES:
622110 - General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
PRIMARY SIC:
8069 - Specialty Hospitals, Except Psychiatric (except childrens and substance
abuse hospitals)
SECONDARY SIC:
8062 - General Medical and Surgical Hospitals

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *
FISCAL YEAR END: 03/31

SALES:  USD 1,000,000,000 - USD 4,999,999,999

* * * * * * * * * * SERVICE FIRMS * * * * * * * * * *
AUDITOR: PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc., Stellenbosch, South Africa

TRANSFER AGENT:  Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Ltd, 70 Marshall Street,
Johannesburg, South Africa

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017


                              345 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday

Hospital, Family Lawyers In Conference For Jahi McMath Case

LENGTH: 327  words


A federal magistrate was expected to meet Friday with lawyers to try to resolve
a dispute over the care of a 13-year-old girl who was declared brain dead after
tonsil surgery.


U.S. Magistrate Donna Ryu will oversee the mandatory settlement conference
between attorneys for Children's Hospital Oakland and for the family of Jahi
McMath.
The girl went into cardiac arrest while recovering from the Dec. 9 surgery and
shows no signs of brain activity, court records show.
The hospital maintains that Jahi is legally dead and that a ventilator keeping
her heart pumping should be removed. However, a state judge has ordered doctors
to keep the breathing machine in place until 5 p.m. Tuesday.
The meeting takes on new urgency as the patient has not been receiving any kind
of nutrition for over 25 days. The gastric tube or feeding tube would supply
nutrients to keep her organs alive, or in the family's view, to keep her alive.
Nailah Winkfield, the girl's mother, wants to transfer her daughter to another
facility after forcing the Oakland hospital to fit Jahi with breathing and
feeding tubes needed for a move or to allow an outside doctor to perform the
surgical procedures.
Hospital lawyer Douglas Straus maintains that Children's Hospital staff has no
legal obligation to operate on the body of a dead person. Thus far, the family
has not found a doctor who is willing to insert the tubes, but relatives have
found a facility in New York that's willing to care for the girl.
The legal proceedings are likely to figure prominently in Friday's talks.
Ryu, the magistrate, told the two sides to be prepared to spend the entire day
working toward an agreement and to present her with confidential memos outlining
their demands.
The issue of the tracheostomy and gastric tubes was also set to be considered
Friday by Alameda County Superior Court Evelio Grillo, who so far has blocked
Children's Hospital from removing Jahi from the ventilator.© 2013 Legal Monitor
Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Missouri Lawyers Media

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

Doctor refiles malpractice suit against St. Louis firm

BYLINE: Donna Walter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 307  words


A legal malpractice lawsuit against Sandberg Phoenix & von Gontard has been
refiled in the St. Louis Circuit Court.

The refiling comes after a November appellate decision reviving the lawsuit.
Earlier this month, the Missouri Supreme Court denied the law firm's application
for transfer.

Last fall, the Missouri Court of Appeals Eastern District said St. Louis Circuit
Judge David Dowd should have granted the change-of-judge application Dr. Keshav
Joshi requested for the lawsuit he filed against Jonathan Ries and the law firm.

Instead, Dowd granted the defendants' motion for a change of venue to St. Louis
County, where Judge Richard C. Bresnahan found the suit was barred by the
five-year statute of limitations.

Ries had represented Joshi, an anesthesiologist, in suspension proceedings
brought by St. Luke's Hospital in 1996; Joshi resigned before a full hearing was
held. Joshi's suit, filed in 2005, alleged the lawyer and law firm failed to
disclose that it represented two other hospitals that were part of the Unity
Health System, as was St. Luke's Hospital, and that it was marketing its
services to St. Luke's Hospital.

Gerard T. Noce, who represents Ries and the law firm, said in November that the
appellate decision expands the rule concerning change-of-judge requests. Dowd
wasn't acting as the trial judge, nor was he the presiding judge at the time, he
said. That means the rule in question doesn't apply because it refers to trial
judges, and a 2000 Eastern District appellate decision also doesn't apply
because it dealt with presiding judges, Noce said.

Noce also said in November that, barring any further appellate review, he would
once again file a motion for a change of venue and seek summary judgment based
on statute-of-limitations grounds.

The case is Joshi v. Ries and Sandberg Phoenix & von Gontard, 0822-CC08363-01.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Missouri Lawyers Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 20, 2000

Records lost by hospital may stop mum suing

BYLINE: By Mary Murtagh

SECTION: Health: Hospitals, Pg.2

LENGTH: 250 words


A MOTHER-OF-THREE may be forced to halt her legal action against the hospital
that saved her life after they admitted losing some of her medical records.

Kathleen Booth, of Shepherd Street, Biddulph, had intended to sue North
Staffordshire Hospital for medical negligence.

In 1996 she almost died after giving birth to her third son George at the
hospital.

She had a caesarean section, her heart stopped twice and she needed 10 pints of
blood during her ordeal. In 1998 she had several operations to repair a hernia.

Mrs Booth, aged 40, started legal action over her care at the hospital late in
1998.

But it may have to be halted after the hospital admitted some of her intensive
care observation charts had been "irretrievably lost".

Without the vital records Mrs Booth's claim for compensation may go no further
and Mrs Booth has asked her MP Charlotte Atkins to look into the blunder on her
behalf.

She said: "I am disgusted that the hospital has lost my records. I have got to
have more surgery and I am scared that what is in my lost medical records may be
something this surgeon needs to know. I am taking legal action and then my notes
go missing. How many other people's records have they lost?"

Her solicitor Chris Murphy said: "It is very disturbing that medical records
like this can go missing."

A spokesman for the North Staffordshire Hospital said: "We can confirm that
Kathleen Booth is taking legal action, but because of this we are unable to
comment any further."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Kathleen Booth

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel


                              348 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday

Sutter Health ordered to pay Marin General Hospital $11 million in legal fees

BYLINE: By Richard Halstead Marin Independent Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Business

LENGTH: 483 words


A court-appointed arbitrator has ordered Sutter Health to pay $11 million to
Marin General Hospital Corp. for legal fees and interest stemming from a lawsuit
in which Marin General was deemed the prevailing party.

"We are hopeful that this decision marks the end of the long-running dispute
between Marin General Hospital and Sutter Health, and that both organizations
can once again focus 100 percent on meeting the health care needs of Marin and
the North Bay," said Lee Domanico, CEO for Marin General Hospital.

The order by Rebecca Westerfield, the arbitrator who heard the case, comes after
she ruled in June 2012 in Marin General's favor and ordered Sutter Health to pay
Marin General $21.5 million. The retired Circuit Court judge from Kentucky found
that Sutter inappropriately transferred $11.3 million of Marin General money
into a pension plan for Sutter employees, improperly charged the hospital for
the use of capital, failed to adequately cooperate with the information
technology transition at the hospital and underfunded physician recruitment.

Marin General had accused Sutter Health of illegally taking $120 million in
profits from the hospital before it returned control to the Marin Healthcare
District in June 2010. Because Marin General was awarded far less than it had
sought, Sutter Health asserted that Westerfield's decision had exonerated it.

In August, however, Westerfield officially designated Marin General as the
prevailing party, clearing the way for the hospital to seek reimbursement of
legal fees and other expenses.

Karen Garner, a Sutter Health spokeswoman, said Tuesday, "The awarding of
attorney fees was simply the final procedural step of this case, and it doesn't
change the fact that the arbitrator rejected the bulk of the district's nearly
$300 million claim. We are pleased to put this issue behind us and we remain
committed to continuing to provide quality health care in Marin County."

Westerfield, who announced her latest ruling on Friday, also ordered Marin
General to pay Robert Heller of Belvedere $848,202 to cover his legal fees and
other costs. Heller served as chairman of the board that oversaw Marin General
when it was under Sutter Health's control. Marin General named Heller as a
defendant in its suit, alleging that he should have acted to stop Sutter from
appropriating millions of dollars in profit from the hospital before returning
it to public control.

Westerfield dismissed Heller from the case in December 2011, saying that he was
innocent of any breach of fiduciary responsibility.

After learning that he had been awarded legal fees, Heller issued this
statement: "Not only did the judge's dismissal vindicate the actions of the
former Marin General board of directors, but the order to pay for my defense
proves that this suit never should have been filed in the first place."

Contact Richard Halstead via e-mail atrhalstead@marinij.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Former hospital board chairman H. Robert Heller, Ph.D.,

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2013 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday

EDITORIAL: Halifax Health must deliver full accounting

BYLINE: OUR VIEW

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 784  words


A second settlement between Halifax Health and a whistleblower, pending
government approval, has resolved the hospital's legal and financial issues
stemming from a 2009 lawsuit.

However, it should not close the book on how Halifax got into such a costly
predicament. Hospital officials need to explain to the public the policies and
decisions that resulted in the institution having to pay more than $100 million
in settlement costs and legal fees.

There must be a full accounting -- and accountability.

The settlement revealed Friday concluded the second and final phase of a lawsuit
brought against Halifax Health by Elin Baklid- Kunz, the hospital's director of
physician services. In the first phase, she alleged that the hospital's method
of compensating its cancer doctors violated the federal Stark Law. In March,
Halifax Health settled that portion of the case, which was joined by the U.S.
Department of Justice, by agreeing to pay $85 million ($20.8 million of which
when to Baklid-Kunz and her attorneys, the rest to the federal government) and
to submit the hospital to greater scrutiny by federal regulators for the next
five years.

In the second phase, Baklid-Kunz alleged that the hospital from 2002-2013
overbilled Medicare by $72.5 million by admitting patients for unneeded hospital
stays of two days or less, and that the facility failed to maintain a sufficient
compliance department to ensure it was abiding by federal rules and regulations.
Halifax has agreed to pay $1 million to settle those claims, although as of late
Friday other terms of that agreement had not been made public while both sides
await federal blessing.

In addition to the settlement costs, the hospital has incurred more than $23
million in legal fees. All told, that's a significant sum to pay and a blow to
the hospital's financial health. It has forced the facility to dip into an
account set aside to replace aging equipment and other assets, and it led to
Halifax Health's credit rating being downgraded from BBB+ to BBB.

How did Halifax Health wind up in this position? Was it merely a failure of
policy -- good intentions gone awry? Was it mismanagement of a problem -- a
failure to address issues prudently and allowing them to grow? Or was it a
combination of both?

For example, in the Medicare phase, hospital officials were made aware of Stark
Law violations by their own in-house counsel. Nevertheless, they sought an
outside legal opinion that concluded the arrangements could be defended in court
but gave no assurances that a judge or jury would agree that the physician
payments were legal -- not exactly a ringing endorsement to proceed with the
legally questionable policy. Yet, officials chose to go with the opinion that
perhaps told them what they wanted to hear.

The hospital did not self-report these violations to the federal government nor
did it seek guidance from the Department of Health and Human Services on how to
comply with a law that contains numerous shades of gray, moves that might have
resulted in a much less severe penalty for the hospital.

Why was that opportunity missed?

With regard to the second phase, a 2008 memo from George Rousis, Halifax
Health's compliance officer, on behalf of David Davidson, the hospital's general
counsel, raised yellow flags about "financial exposure to Halifax arising from
medically unnecessary admissions." Among Rousis' concerns was "anecdotal
evidence that inpatient admission decisions are based solely on reimbursement
concerns."

How did hospital administrators respond? What officials were in the decision
loop? Was the hospital's board of directors thoroughly informed at every step?
Did anyone object to the actions Halifax Health took?

The public deserves to know the answers because it has a stake in the hospital.

Halifax Health is partially funded by a local ad valorem taxing district (it
comprised 2.5 percent of the hospital's Fiscal Year 2014 operating revenues) and
is governed by a public board. Plus, the dispute involved public funds
(Medicare). The hospital also plays a vital role in the area's health care and
economy.

However, it's not just a matter of being responsible for public dollars.
Hospital officials also have an obligation to maintain the public's confidence
and trust in their management and leadership.

Seeking accountability is not an attack on the hospital or its staff, nor does
it discount the good work they perform for the community. On the contrary, a
transparent accounting will help ensure that Halifax Health remains a vibrant
asset by never going down this path again.

The hospital's leadership, from the CEO to board members, must provide an honest
public vetting, or the public will see right through it.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              350 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            March 12, 1996, Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

City, agency to sue hospital operator

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



The debate about how to run Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital - arguably the most
divisive issue in this city's history - has taken a new twist.

Attorneys for the city and the Tarpon Springs Health Facilities Authority  have
announced their intentions to sue the private foundation that runs Helen  Ellis,
a 150-bed hospital owned by the city.

Although the city's and the authority's lawsuits aren't expected to be  filed in
Circuit Court until later this week, copies were hand-delivered March  4 to
hospital attorney Jim Kennedy at his Tampa law office. Other copies were  mailed
to attorneys for the hospital in Tallahassee, Orlando and Pittsburgh.

"We're evaluating all of our options," Kennedy said.

One of the lawsuits claims that unless the hospital foundation opens its
records to the authority and pays outstanding legal fees of the authority, the
foundation will be in default of its lease. A finding of default could force
the foundation to relinquish all property to the city.

These lawsuits are in response to a lawsuit filed last October by the  hospital
foundation against the city and its health facilities authority. That  lawsuit
asks a judge to clear up disputes in the foundation's lease with the  city, as
well as to tell the city to leave the foundation alone until 2021,  when its
lease expires.

Copies of the latest lawsuits will be mailed to the court today, now that 4
inches of accompanying exhibits have been compiled, said Harry Goplerud, an
attorney for the city.

Goplerud said the city's countersuits are a matter of procedure because a  judge
last month refused the city's request to dismiss the hospital's lawsuit.

In its counterclaims, the city aims to advance its version of how the
hospital's lease should be interpreted, he said. The hospital offered its
version when it filed its lawsuit.

"We think they're wrong in their interpretation," Goplerud said.

Kennedy said the city didn't have to sue.

"There are alternative means by which one could offer their interpretation  of
the contractual dispute," he said.

The city's lawsuits seek some control over Helen Ellis and input into  decisions
about how it's run.

Among the demands are:

If the hospital's outstanding debt is paid off before the lease expires in
2021, the city wants to regain possession of the hospital with 30 days'  written
notice to the foundation. The city contends that this is a provision   allowed
in the lease.

If the foundation's lease is terminated, then all the hospital's property,
including its license to operate, would revert to the city.

The city wants to require the foundation to get prior permission if  health-care
services at the hospital are changed, as well as to disclose  investments.

The health facilities authority wants to examine the hospital's books and
financial records. It also wants the hospital foundation to pay for some of  its
legal bills, a provision the authority says is in the foundation's lease.

Some of these demands were brought up last year when hospital and city
officials began squabbling over the future of Helen Ellis. It all began when
the hospital foundation agreed to form a partnership with Columbia/HCA
Healthcare Corp. without soliciting input from the city.

Although the City Commission ultimately harpooned that partnership deal, it
mushroomed into a debate between the hospital and the city over the future of
Helen Ellis. The city argued it was entitled to a greater decision-making role
than the hospital foundation would permit.

In November, voters defeated a referendum backed by four of the five city
commissioners to sell Helen Ellis.

Two of the commissioners who supported that referendum are up for  re-election
next Tuesday.

One of them, Karen Brayboy, said Monday the hospital debate is a non-issue  in
this campaign. Instead, she said, this latest legal wrangling is simply  part of
the city's defense to the initial lawsuit filed by the hospital.

"I guess this is part of the legal dance that goes on," Brayboy said.  "It's not
a brand-new issue."

Kennedy said he expects to file a response to these latest lawsuits in the  next
10 days.

One of the options, he said, is to ask a judge to dismiss them.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 1996

CORRECTION:
 The city of Tarpon Springs has asked a judge to declare that the city may
terminate its lease with the Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital foundation on 30
days' written notice if the hospital's outstanding debt is paid off before 2021.
It's a provision the city has not said it would exercise. A story in Tuesday's
North Pinellas Times may not have been clear on that point.

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              351 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday
                                 First Edition

Hospital threatens to evict elderly patients

BYLINE: IAN JOHNSTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 359 words


A hospital is threatening to take legal action to evict mainly elderly patients
whose relatives refuse to take them home when they are well enough to leave. An
official at Royal Bournemouth Hospital said one family had asked staff to "keep
hold" of a relative so they could go on holiday to Turkey for two weeks.

However, a recent report by Healthwatch Dorset included comments from patients
treated by the same hospital trust who claimed they felt under pressure to leave
before they were ready.

Katie Whiteside, the clinical manager for discharge services at the hospital,
told BBC News: "At the moment, we have relatives coming back telling us they
don't like the decor of care homes, or they don't like the member of staff who
met them at the door. Sometimes they are decorating the house or having a
'granny annexe' built and they know that, while the patients are here, they are
being fed, watered and looked after."

On Wednesday, there were 70 people on the wards who did not need to be there and
about half had somewhere suitable to be, according to the hospital.

Patients who are well enough to leave are to be given a week's notice. Those who
did not go would then potentially face legal action.

"We would be in a position to commence legal proceedings and formally evict a
patient if that was necessary. It would be an absolute last resort but it's
something we are in a position to do with the solicitors here at the trust," Ms
Whiteside said.

She said seriously ill patients had sometimes had to wait on trolleys or in
corridors and operations had been cancelled because of a lack of beds.

Dr Louise Irvine, of the National Health Action Party, who is standing against
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt in his Surry constituency at the next general
election, said "the hospital resorting to legal action reflects its
desperation".

"Hospitals throughout the country are being very tightly squeezed financially
and suffering cuts in beds so there is very little slack in the system. To make
matters worse, hospitals are penalised if they keep on patients for any longer
than agreed time-frames," she said, stressing she could not comment on
individual cases.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2014 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            November 7, 2014 Friday

Court sides with state and against Florida Hospital Orlando in Medicaid
overpayment case

LENGTH: 394  words


A Tallahassee appellate court on Thursday affirmed an order requiring Florida
Hospital Orlando to repay $22,138.34 to the state for unnecessary medical
services for 14 Medicaid patients.
In reaching its unanimous opinion a three-member panel of the First District
Court of Appeal rejected the hospital's argument that the state reviewed
Medicaid patient files to determine whether the admissions at the hospital were
medically necessary and did not rely upon the same information that was
available to the hospital and its doctors at the time of care.


"The hospital has not shown that AHCA and its auditors relied on hindsight
information in penalizing the hospital's admission decisions,"the court wrote in
its ruling.
Florida Hospital Orlando did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The decision lets stand  a final order from the Agency for Health Care
Administration demanding that the hospital pay $22,138.34 as well as pay a $500
administrative fine and $7635.27 in legal and research fees.
The discrepancy was discovered through a Medicaid Program Integrity Audit for
patients treated at the hospital between 2005 and 2006.
On appeal the hospital argued that the state improperly used information that
was in the patient's file  and did not limit the audit to information that was
available at the time to the hospital when the patient was admitted.
While the court acknowledged that the law gives the state no authority "for
evaluating medical necessity determinations post hoc,using later-available
information from a post-discharge standpoint," the justices said the hospital
did not show that AHCA and its auditors relied on hindsight.
Agency for Health Care Administration Secretary Liz Dudek signed a final order
last December adopting the recommendations and findings of an administrative law
judge, who heard two days of oral arguments on the billing discrepancies.
The administrative law judge lowered the amount the state initially sought to
recoup and also slashed the amount of sanctions it tried to impose against the
hospital from $2,000 to $500. The administrative law judge did allow the state
to recover $7635.27 in legal and research fees.
The First District Court of Appeal ruling came just weeks after the court heard
the case but years after initial findings contained in a Medicaid Program
Integrity audit. 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 993 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright 2017 LexisNexis, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.,
                              All Rights Reserved
                     LexisNexis® Corporate Affiliations[TM]

                                August 28, 2017

                        Shriners Hospitals For Children

                              2900 Rocky Point Dr
                             Tampa,  FL 33607-1460
                                 United States


MSA: 45300 - Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, FL

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (813) 281-0300, (800) 237-5055 (Toll Free)
URL: www.shrinershospitalsforchildren.org
E-MAIL: shrinepr@shrinenet.org

FACEBOOK: www.facebook.com/pages/Shriners-Hospital/15621747933
LINKEDIN: www.linkedin.com/company/shriners-hospitals-for-children
TWITTER: www.twitter.com/shrinershosp
YOUTUBE: www.youtube.com/shrinershospitals

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY IDENTIFIERS * * * * * * * * * *
DCA NUMBER: 519151

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
FOUNDED: 1922
LEGAL STATUS: PRIVATE
EMPLOYEES:
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES:  6,100

IMPORT:  NO
EXPORT:  NO

* * * * * * * * * * CORPORATE STRUCTURE * * * * * * * * * *

CORPORATE HIERARCHY

* * * * * * * * * * EXECUTIVES * * * * * * * * * *

OFFICER             TITLE TYPE          ROLE(S)             EMAIL/SOCIAL MEDIA
Kathy A. Dean,      Executive           Vice President      EMAIL:
VP-HR                                   Human Resources     kdean@shrinenet.org
                                                            LINKEDIN:
                                                            www.linkedin.com/pu
                                                            b/kathy-dean/23/82/
                                                            6a0
Cynthia Max, Chief  Executive           Director            EMAIL:
Nursing Officer &                       Officer             CMax@shrinenet.org
Dir-Patient Care
Svcs
Eugene R. D'Amore,  Executive           Vice President      EMAIL:
VP-Hospital Ops                                             edamore@shrinenet.o
                                                            rg
Mashayla Colwell,   Executive           Marketing           EMAIL:
Dir-Mktg & Comm                         Director            MColwell@shrinenet.
                                        Communication(s)/Co org
                                        rporate
                                        Communications
Scott R. Laubisch,  Executive           Vice President      EMAIL:
VP-Plng & Bus Dev                       Planning            slaubisch@shrinenet
                                        Business            .org
                                        Development         LINKEDIN:
                                                            www.linkedin.com/pu
                                                            b/scott-r-laubisch/
                                                            b/547/83b
John McCabe, Exec   Executive           Executive Vice      EMAIL:
VP                                      President           jmccabe@shrinenet.o
                                                            rg
Laurie A. Spieler,  Executive           Vice President      EMAIL:
VP-Legal                                Legal/Legal Affairs lspieler@shrinenet.
                                                            org
Liz Isaak,          Executive           Director            EMAIL:
Dir-Fiscal Svcs-St.                                         LIsaak@shrinenet.or
Louis                                                       g


DIRECTOR            TITLE TYPE          ROLE(S)             EMAIL/SOCIAL MEDIA
Adam Sperling, Exec Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
Dir                 of Directors        Executive Director  asperling@shrinenet
                                                            .org
Jerry Gantt, Chm    Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                    of Directors        Chairman            jgantt@shrinenet.or
                                                            g
Jeffrey Sowder,     Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
Asst Sec            of Directors        Assistant Secretary jsowder@shrinenet.o
                                                            rg
Kenneth Craven      Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            KCraven@shrinenet.o
                                                            rg
Chris Smith, First  Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
VP                  of Directors        First Vice          csmith@shrinenet.or
                                        President           g
Jim Cain Sr., Sec   Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                    of Directors        Corporate Secretary jcain@shrinenet.org
                                                            LINKEDIN:
                                                            www.linkedin.com/pu
                                                            b/jim-cain/25/b10/6
                                                            28
Dale Stauss, Pres   Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                    of Directors        President           dstauss@shrinenet.o
                                                            rg
Wayne Lachut        Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            wlachut@shrinenet.o
                                                            rg
                                                            LINKEDIN:
                                                            www.linkedin.com/pu
                                                            b/wayne-lachut/26/8
                                                            61/b97
Jack Jones          Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            jjones@shrinenet.or
                                                            g
                                                            LINKEDIN:
                                                            www.linkedin.com/pu
                                                            b/jack-jones/29/42/
                                                            429
James Smith         Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            jsmith@shrinenet.or
                                                            g
William Bailey      Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            wbailey@shrinenet.o
                                                            rg
Gary Bergenske,     Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
Second VP           of Directors        Second Vice         gbergenske@shrinene
                                        President           t.org
                                                            LINKEDIN:
                                                            www.linkedin.com/pu
                                                            b/gary-bergenske/13
                                                            /2B9/367
Jim McConnell,      Supervisory Board   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
Treas               of Directors        Treasurer           jmcconnell@shrinene
                                                            t.org
Douglas Maxwel      Board of Director   Board of Directors  EMAIL:
                                                            dmaxwel@shrinenet.o
                                                            rg

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *
Founded in 1922, Shriners Hospitals For Children is based in Tampa, FL. It is a
provider of healthcare services. The hospital focuses on physical, speech, and
occupational therapies. It specializes in the treatment for bone deformities
such as club foot, cerebral palsy, and other genetic anomalies. The hospital
offers customized care services for children.

INDUSTRY TYPE: Children's Hospital Owner & Operator

* * * * * * * * * * MARKET AND INDUSTRY * * * * * * * * * *
NAICS CODES:
622310 - Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals
SIC CODES:
8069 - Specialty Hospitals, Except Psychiatric (except childrens and substance
abuse hospitals)
PRODUCTS:
EAST-WEST SHRINE GAME
LOVE TO THE RESCUE.
SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN
WALK FOR LOVE

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

SALES:  USD 500,000,000 - USD 549,999,999

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017


                              354 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 3, 2017 Thursday

170 GOVERNORS AVENUE LEGAL NOTICE Public Annou 170 GOVERNORS AVENUE LEGAL NOTICE

LENGTH: 312  words



Boston: The State of Massachusetts has issued the following Public Notice:


170 GOVERNORS AVENUE LEGAL NOTICE Public Annou
170 GOVERNORS AVENUE
LEGAL NOTICE
Public Announcement Concerning the Establishment of a Satellite Emergency
Facility by Hallmark Health System, Inc. - Lawrence Memorial Hospital
Hallmark Health System, Inc.

(the "Applicant"), which owns and operates Lawrence Memorial Hospital, filed an
application with the Department of Public Health on or about July 28, 2017 to
establish a Satellite Emergency Facility (the "Facility"). The Facility will be
known as "Lawrence Memorial Hospital Satellite Emergency Facility" and will be
located in the space currently occupied by the Applicant's existing Emergency
Department at 170 Governors Avenue, Medford, MA 02155. The Applicant proposes to
establish this Facility because the Medical-Surgical and Intensive Care Unit
services are being relocated to the Applicant's other hospital campus,
Melrose-Wakefield Hospital. However, emergency and other medical care at
Lawrence Memorial Hospital will continue to be provided at the site. The
proposed Facility will provide a wide range of emergency, urgent care, and
non-urgent care services to the patient population and will be staffed and
operate twenty-four hours per day, seven days per week. Medical care at the
Facility will include assessments of patients of all ages, stabilizations,
diagnostic studies, consultations, and determinations of follow-up care. The
Applicant will hold a public meeting regarding the proposed Facility, which will
take place at 6:00pm on Thursday, September 7, 2017 at Lawrence Memorial/Regis
School of Nursing, 170 Governors Avenue, Medford, MA 02155, Classroom A/B.
AD# 13596216
Medford Transcript 8/3/17

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:  editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 289  words


A STAFFORD councillor has failed in a last-ditch bid to take legal action
against the closure of services at the town's County Hospital.

Yesterday Councillor Louise Nixon, pictured below, who only joined the council
in May, called on Stafford Borough Council's cabinet to pursue legal action. She
said there were just days left to launch a challenge, and claims the deadline
for submissions is Monday, August 17.

The Labour councillor, who represents the Coton ward, told the Newsletter before
yesterday's meeting: "We have only got eight working days left if anything can
be done. The community needs this hospital and we need proper support from the
council if we are going to move this forward."

She has been working on the call for legal action since June and has been backed
by the council's opposition leader Jack Kemp, fellow Labour councillors, Support
Stafford Hospital campaigners and Karen Howell, who represented the National
Health Action Party in the May elections.

In January, Stafford Borough Council ruled out a legal challenge following
advice from a barrister.

Tory council leader Patrick Farrington questioned the deadline.

He told the meeting that 12 months ago the council had resolved to put aside
£100,000 to obtain special legal advice but that the council reluctantly
resolved no legal challenge was possible at that time.

Councillor Farrington, who was heckled by members of the public, said it had
been resolved to scrutinise decisions made by University Hospitals of North
Midlands NHS Trust.

No move was made to take legal action.

Support Stafford Hospital member Julian Porter said: "I don't think the council
has been quick enough or strong enough.

"They should be doing more for the services at the hospital."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    November 4, 1997, Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Lynn McIver, 48, helped in management of medical office buildings across;
Southeast

BYLINE: Cato Bass; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 06B; Pg. 07B

LENGTH: 319 words


The funeral for Lynn G. McIver of Acworth, 48, vice president of legal services
for Cousins/Richmond, an Atlanta medical office management company, will be at
11 a.m. today at Woodstock Funeral Home.

She died Saturday of cancer at Northside Hospital.

Although she was diagnosed with breast cancer eight years ago, Mrs. McIver never
gave a thought to giving up her job.

"At her own insistence, she kept working," said Lea Richmond of Atlanta,
president of Cousins/Richmond, who has worked with Mrs. McIver for the past 23
years. "It was not in her personality to quit."

As vice president of legal services for Cousins/Richmond, a division of Cousins
Properties Inc., Mrs. McIver was responsible for the company's legal
documentation involving building and managing medical office buildings in
Atlanta and across the Southeast in partnership with hospitals and physician
groups, according to Mr. Richmond.

Among the local hospitals that Mrs. McIver worked with closely were Scottish
Rite Children's Medical Center, Gwinnett Medical Center, North Fulton Regional
Hospital and Northside Hospital.

A Brookhaven native, Mrs. McIver was an honors graduate of Cross Keys High
School and earned a bachelor's degree in paralegal studies at the University of
Alabama at Birmingham, according to her husband, Roger S. McIver of Acworth.

At Woodstock Christian Church, Mrs. McIver taught Sunday school and sang in the
choir. She supported the American Diabetes Association; her 13-year-old son,
Kenneth Charles McIver of Acworth, has the disease.

Survivors other than her husband and son are another son, Russell McIver of
Morrow; three sisters, Dottie Crist of Dallas, Ga., Doris Hurst of Atlanta and
Ann Weed of Stone Mountain; and a grandchild.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions be made to the American
Diabetes Association, 1 Corporate Blvd. N.E., Atlanta, Ga. 30329-2012.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: mug of Lynn McIver

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


                              357 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             August 26, 2013 Monday

Recent GR enabled survivor to be treated at private hospital

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 372 words


MUMBAI: When the 22-year-old photojournalist was taken to Jaslok Hospital on
Peddar Road late on Wednesday evening, it was perhaps the first time that a rape
survivor's entire medical examination took place in a private hospital.

Until May, rape survivors were invariably sent to public or government hospitals
for medical examination; procedures such as medico-legal examination, collection
of evidence, documentation were considered the responsibility of public hospital
doctors only. Social activists had for long protested against the inconvenience
caused to survivors, especially because they would have to travel from a suburb
- say, Dahisar or Mulund - to a state-run hospital in south Mumbai for the
procedures.

Such delay could jeopardise the health of the victim and lead to loss of
potential medico-legal evidence, the activists said. Moreover, they added that
the Section 164 A of the CrPC in 2005 allowed any registered medical
practitioner to conduct the medical examination and insisted that he/ she must
provide immediate medical care.

On Wednesday, however, it was the first time that a patient of sexual assualt
was provided with medico-legal examination as well as treatment at a private
hospital in Mumbai. The photojournalist's paperwork and samples were collected
at Jaslok Hospital itself and sent to the Kalina Forensic Sciences Laboratory.
She was also given preventive medication.

"In a government resolution dated May 10, it has been stated that rape survivors
can access any hospital based on their convenience for the examination and
treatment," police surgeon Dr S M Patil told TOI. Dr Patil said Jaslok Hospital
was the first to do procedure in the private sector. "Their doctors have done
the job well," he said about the case.

Sangeeta Rege of NGO CEHAT (Centre for Enquiry into Health & Allied Themes) said
Jaslok Hospital has now paved way for other private hospitals to a ensure that
survivors of sexual assault get comprehensive healthcare services at the
hospital of their choice. "It is indeed heartening to see that treatment of
survivor was prioritised and no unneccesary demand was made for police
requisition for a medical examination to the survivor," she said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 March 12, 1996, Tuesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

TGH hunt for chief starts again

BYLINE: MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Tampa General Hospital's board Monday scrapped a nationwide search for a new
president that was tainted by bad legal advice, voting instead to start over
again Friday.

They will do it with legal advice from the lawyer who created their last  legal
mess. The public board, with some confusion, rejected a bid to fire the  Tampa
law firm of Allen, Dell, Frank & Trinkle, whose lawyers had erroneously
approved the first process that violated Florida's open government laws.

Board member Pat Frank reasoned: After making so many errors, attorney Mike
Brown should now be familiar with the law. Brown abruptly left the hospital
after a closed-door session where board members questioned his abilities and
raised issues of his firm's liability for the costly mistakes. He later  refused
to comment.

Two of the three finalists said Monday the delay has not tempered their
interest in the job.

"Those things happen," said finalist Dan Couch, 58, deputy executive  director
of Truman Medical Center in Kansas City, Mo. "I think there are a  lot of things
going for Tampa General. The real question is, is everybody  ready to jump on
board and move ahead?"

The board was scheduled to learn more about the finalists Monday, but the
process unraveled after the Times sued to make their names public.
Subsequently, Brown admitted last week in a private meeting that he erred by
approving a secret screening process. The search was deemed illegal because  the
board delegated a portion of the decision-making process to a committee  that
met out of public view.

However, the aborted search has not ended the legal wranglings.

Hillsborough Circuit Judge Manuel Menendez Monday gave the consultant who
conducted the search until 10 a.m. Thursday to give job applicants an
opportunity to prove that disclosing their names could hurt them. The adage
"justice delayed is justice denied is very appropriate," he said, since his
ruling denied access for another 72 hours.

Consultant Ed French was represented by Tampa lawyer Rob Williams, the  former
hospital board chairman who led the failed attempt in 1989 to privatize  Tampa
General. Williams agreed in a hearing Monday that the public has a right  to the
records, but said releasing names would violate the privacy rights of  the
candidates.

While more than 275 resumes were mailed to him, French later said in a
deposition that he only maintained a list of about 50 serious candidates,
including 16 finalists who flew at the hospital's expense to interviews in
Atlanta and Scottsdale, Ariz. The hospital board, which will decide on a new
search process Friday, has not yet sought to obtain those records.

French and board chairwoman Phyllis Busansky called three finalists Monday  to
apologize for the botched search and urge the candidates to reapply for the
job. All three, who were recruited by French for the Tampa General job, are  top
hospital executives with stellar reputations in the health care industry.

Don Snell, 41, executive director of the Hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania and Presbyterian Medical Center in Philadelphia, said the glitch
in the hiring process didn't frighten him away. Snell, the former interim  chief
executive officer at the public Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, said  he has
a passion for public hospitals. "I have inserted myself in  institutions that
are more of a challenge," he said.

Sam Odle, the third candidate, was not available for comment.

Board members agreed Monday they'll conduct the new search in public view.
Hospital President Fred Karl, 71, said Monday he is ready to move on but will
stay if the search moves quickly. He and Busansky have concerns about keeping
Brown's firm on as legal counsel. Busansky pushed Monday to bring Hillsborough
County Attorney Emmy Acton in to guide the next search.

"This is a very complex and treacherous process and it takes an expert to
clearly define parameters," Karl said. "I would be more comfortable if we  had a
legal adviser who specializes in this field."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Board member Pat Frank

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              359 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 10, 2004 Friday
                        ILLINOIS FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

Hospital's ex-lawyer is facing board complaint

BYLINE: By ROBERT GOODRICH Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 559 words


A former medical malpractice defense lawyer for Memorial Hospital in Belleville
is accused by the agency that licenses and disciplines lawyers in Illinois of a
conflict of interest for taking a case as a plaintiff lawyer against the
hospital.

The lawyer, Doreen Ann Graham of St. Louis, and her attorney, Charles J.
Northrup of Springfield, admit that she took the case but deny any conflict of
interest.

Earlier, Memorial Hospital filed a civil suit against Graham and her former law
firm, Moser & Marsalek of St. Louis, charging legal malpractice. In the suit,
which was settled out of court last month, the hospital charged that it could
not reach Graham for months at a time and eventually found out she had been
"hospitalized for chemical and-or alcohol dependency problems."

It said she was later admitted to an inpatient treatment center in Florida. It
charged that in August 2001, about the time she left Moser & Marsalek, one of
its other lawyers told the hospital no one there had time for its cases.

The suit says trial in one of Graham's cases was then only four weeks off, and
the hospital had to hire another law firm to represent it -- at a cost of
$75,000.

Memorial Hospital's suit was first filed in circuit court in Belleville but was
almost immediately transferred to federal court in East St. Louis. The
settlement prohibits either side from discussing it or disclosing the outcome.

Graham was in trial on Thursday, and could not be reached for comment. Northrup,
her defense lawyer in the conflict of interest proceeding, said he knew little
about the civil suit.

The Illinois Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission filed its
complaint against Graham on Sept. 20. It has the authority to recommend that the
Illinois Supreme Court suspend or disbar a lawyer.

The agency's complaint lists five malpractice lawsuits it says Graham helped
defend before she left Moser & Marsalek in August 2001. It says she had inside
access to hospital staff, policies and procedures plus contractual
relationships.

It says she was went to work in September 2001 for a different St. Louis firm,
Casey & Meyerkord, and one month later it filed a malpractice suit against
Memorial in circuit court in Belleville for a man named James Bush.

Five weeks later, according to the commission, Graham entered her appearance as
a plaintiff lawyer in the Bush case.

The agency says Graham and her firm refused to withdraw from the case, despite a
demand by the hospital's lawyers.

That refusal, it says, included an affidavit denying she had inside information
that could be used against the hospital in the Bush case. The commission's
complaint says, "These representations were false."

Graham has since left Casey & Meyerkord for another firm in St. Louis.

In his response to the commission complaint, Northrup denies Graham had as much
inside information about Memorial as the hospital says.

Northrup's response also says that many of the commission's other charges may or
may not be true and call for legal conclusions. Those issues may be hashed out
in a hearing that has yet to be scheduled.

He said that because it is a pending legal matter, he would not discuss it in
detail.

Graham is licensed as a lawyer in Missouri and Illinois and is authorized to
practice in federal court on both sides of the river. She is also licensed in
Illinois as a registered nurse.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              360 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 26, 2016 Monday

Hospital Negligence

LENGTH: 756  words

DATELINE: New York


New York: Legal Resources Organization has issued the following news release:
If you or a loved one is hospitalized because of an injury or illness, you are
putting your health and safety in the hands of medical professionals.  From
physicians and nurses to orderlies and station assistants, hospitals must ensure
that their staff has been thoroughly trained and that they are following the
policies and procedures that have been put into place. When mistakes are made
that harm the patient, the hospital administration and the medical professional
who treated you can be held liable for medical negligence.  Examples of medical
mistakes that can lead to hospital negligence include the following:  Surgical
errors Failure to obtain informed consent Delayed or incorrect diagnosis
Medication errors Anesthesiologist complications Hospital infections Nursing
errors In most cases, if a patient is injured because an employee of the
hospital acts incompetently, the hospital will be liable for the patient's
injuries.

However, this does not include mistakes made by doctors who are not employees of
the hospital. Non-employee doctors are considered independent contractors, which
means the hospital is not responsible for their medical malpractice. An
exception to this rule is if the hospital gives staff privileges to an
incompetent doctor, or if the hospital did not fully explain to the patient that
the doctor is not a hospital employee.  Pursuing Legal Action If you plan to
file a medical malpractice claim against a hospital, you must prove the
following elements.  The hospital had a duty to you. In most cases, a copy of a
test or medical procedure, or your visit to the emergency room is proof of this
element.  The hospital breached its duty to you. After establishing the accepted
standard of care, a medical malpractice lawyer can prove how the hospital failed
to meet this standard.  The breach of duty caused your injury. You will only
have a valid claim if the hospital's mistakes caused you harm. The hospital's
mistakes are the cause of your damages. If the hospital tried to show that you
were responsible for what happened, a medical malpractice lawyer can help build
your case and be prepared to counter the argument.  Steps to Take When Filing a
Medical Malpractice Lawsuit Act quickly. If you wait too long to file a claim,
the statute of limitations could run out, and you will be unable to pursue legal
action.  Hire a Medical Malpractice Lawyer. Medical malpractice cases can be
extremely complex, so it is not recommended that you handle the case on your
own.  Determine Whether the Hospital or an Independent Contractor is Negligent.
Most doctors are independent contractors, so if the doctor provided sub-standard
care, you would have to sue to doctor, not the hospital.  Obtain Medical
Records. Request all medical records from the hospital. Every hospital must keep
patient records on file for up to several years.  Determine Damages. Consider
all losses that are connected to the malpractice, including medical expenses,
loss of wages, pain and suffering, and a compromised quality of life.  Determine
Who is Responsible for the Mistake. When a number of medical professionals are
involved in treating you, you must determine who is responsible for the medical
error. For example, it could be a nurse, a pharmacist, or an ambulance service,
to name a few.  Comply with the Rules. The patient can speak with their medical
malpractice lawyer to find out if they have to file an affidavit of merit, or
submit a claim to a medical review board before filing in court.  Draft and File
a Complaint. This should include the patient's name, the names of all parties
responsible, a detailed description of the incident including the harm that was
caused, and the dollar amount that the patient expects to receive.  ABOUT THE
AUTHOR: Benjamin Folkman Ben Folkman was named, by his peers, New Jersey Super
Lawyer for the last seven years running and Top Lawyer in SJ Magazine for the
last six. His $100 million verdict was listed by the NJ Law Journal as the
largest personal injury verdict for New Jersey in 2009. Licensed to practice law
in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York and Washington D.C., Ben Folkman opened
Folkman Law Offices, P.C. in October of 1998. Ben is highly accessible to
clients and prides himself on working diligently to make sure that each and
every one of their needs is met.   In case of any query regarding this article
or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 27, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hospital Drops Legal Action To Stem Tide of Bad Publicity

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., July 26


Bridgeport Hospital withdrew a lawsuit today that it had filed on Wednesday
against a man whose wife died in 1997 from an infection she contracted during
cardiac surgery at the hospital. The quick withdrawal of the suit suggested that
legal action intended to relieve a public relations headache had created a
public relations nightmare instead.

The hospital, Fairfield County's largest trauma center, filed the lawsuit
against Phillip Bonaffini of Bridgeport after he was quoted in an article in The
Chicago Tribune last Sunday about infections that kill tens of thousands of
patients each year in the United States, infections that are largely the result
of health care workers' failure to follow proper sanitary procedures as simple
as washing their hands.

The Tribune article detailed an outbreak of staphylococcus infections at
Bridgeport Hospital in late 1996 and 1997. According to the report, the
infections were the result of numerous unsanitary practices and conditions.
Among other problems, The Tribune reported that a faulty ventilation system
allowed dust and flies to be in the air during surgery and some doctors wore
dirty clothes and did not wash their hands.

The Tribune also reported that Bridgeport Hospital has made great strides in
addressing the problems and that it now has an infection rate of less than 1
percent, far below the national average. But what caught the attention of
hospital lawyers was information clearly provided by Mr. Bonaffini and Eunice
Babcock, another patient who became infected with staphylococcus bacteria during
surgery at the hospital.

Mr. Bonaffini, Mrs. Babcock and her husband, Keith, had sued Bridgeport Hospital
over the infections. The hospital settled the case last year and paid Mr.
Bonaffini and Mr. and Mrs. Babcock an undisclosed sum in exchange for signed
confidentiality agreements. In the lawsuit the hospital accused all three, and
their lawyer, Margaret Haering, of violating the terms of the settlement.

In the lawsuit, filed in State Superior Court in Bridgeport, the hospital
charged: "By discussing these matters with the media, Babcock and Bonaffini
either directly or indirectly through their servants, agents, employees and
legal representatives breached the confidentiality agreement which they had
previously entered into with Bridgeport Hospital."

If the goal was to stem negative publicity, suing a man whose wife died and a
woman who was left mostly wheelchair-bound, was probably ill-advised. The
Connecticut Post and The Associated Press reported the lawsuit on Thursday. The
Chicago Tribune followed with its own account today. By late this afternoon, a
hospital spokeswoman, Audrey Wise, said the suit had been withdrawn.

Ms. Wise said the lawsuit had overshadowed the advances Bridgeport Hospital has
made since the outbreak of infections five years ago. "As The Chicago Tribune
pointed out today and a independent public health agency confirmed, Bridgeport
Hospital's infection rate is at 1 percent or less, which is far below the
national average," she said. "Anything that distracts from that is not
productive for anybody."

"The decision," she added, "was made to withdraw the legal action so we can all
focus on the fact that our infection rate is less than 1 percent. Nothing should
come between the public and that message."

Ms. Wise said hospital officials initially decided to sue to enforce the
settlement agreement.

"Bridgeport Hospital and the Bonaffinis and the Babcocks had come to a
settlement; each of us had agreed to the terms," Ms. Wise said. "They came
forward and, as we understand it, that was a violation of the settlement
agreement. That's why we went to court this week, just to enforce the terms of
the settlement."

In the lawsuit, the hospital said it was seeking damages in excess of $15,000.
The hospital also received a temporary restraining order from Judge Barbara J.
Sheedy barring Mr. and Mrs. Babcock, Mr. Bonaffini, and Ms. Haering from
discussing "the terms, conditions and existence of any and all settlement
agreements regarding Bridgeport Hospital."

In an interview, Mrs. Babcock said she was glad that the lawsuit had been
dropped and that she was reluctant to discuss the situation for fear of
prompting even more litigation. "We knew that we were right and they were
wrong," she said, "because we have said nothing about anything."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                           Daily Deal (New York, NY)

                             March 26, 2001 Monday

Universal buys French hospital operator

BYLINE: by Tyson Freeman

SECTION: M&A

LENGTH: 420 words

HIGHLIGHT: The hospital operator has paid $75 million for an 80% stake in Sante
Finance, the fourth-largest operator of private hospitals in France.


King of Prussia, Penn., hospital operator Universal Health Services Inc. has
paid $75 million for an 80% stake in Sante Finance, the fourth-largest operator
of private hospitals in France.

Universal Health bought its stake in the hospital chain from management and
Legal & General Ventures U.K., the venture-capital arm of U.K. insurance company
Legal & General Group plc. Legal Ventures sold its roughly 50% stake for around
$24.6 million, for a gain of approximately $15 million on the firm's initial
investment.

The remaining 20% of what was formerly named Sante Finance is still owned by its
management, led by President Frederic Dubois.

United Health Services said in a press release it has formed a new company named
Medi-Partenaires to complete the transaction. The entity currently owns eight
hospitals which posted approximately $75 million in net revenues in the fiscal
year ended Dec. 2000.

Medi-Partenaires' strategy is to selectively acquire hospitals with high market
shares in mid-sized towns throughout France.

"We are pleased to have this new avenue for growth and diversification," said
Alan Miller, president and CEO of United Health Service in a prepared statement.
"While there are numerous differences between the French and the American health
care systems, the operation of hospitals and the strategies that determine
success are fundamentally the same."

Universal Health Services is the third-largest hospital management company in
the U.S. and operates facilities nationwide including medical, surgical and
behavioral-health hospitals as well as ambulatory surgery and radiation therapy
centers. It also acts as advisor to Universal Health Realty Income Trust, a King
of Prussia healthcare real estate investment trust, leasing and managing several
of the REIT's properties.

The company has completed several hospital acquisitions since the beginning of
the year. It bought two behavioral-health hospitals in Boston - Pembroke
Hospital and Westwood Lodge Hospital - for approximately $6 million, the 108-bed
San Juan Capestrano Hospital in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico; McAllen Heart
Hospital, a 60-bed specialty heart hospital in McAllen, Texas; and Southwest
Surgical Arts Center, a freestanding outpatient surgery center in Reno, Nevada.

United Health Services shares rose $1.87, or 2.26%, to close at $84.72 March 26.
Its shares have traded between $77 and $88 since January when its shares tumbled
from a 52-week high of around $112.93.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: M & A

                         Copyright 2001 The Deal L.L.C.


                              363 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                         January 23, 1990, Tuesday, ME1

Judge weighs fight on hospital merger

BYLINE: By Kelly Toughill Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 354 words


   The Ontario Supreme Court was to decide today whether to forbid a meeting
designed to block a proposed merger between Women's College Hospital and the
Toronto Hospital Corp.

Foes of the merger have called a Women's College membership meeting for tomorrow
night.

They hope members will either dump 18 pro-merger directors of the board or force
the board to scrap the planned merger.

The board has 18 elected and eight ex-officio members.

A lawyer representing the board yesterday asked the Ontario Supreme Court for an
injunction to stop the meeting, saying it was improperly called.

After hearing seven hours of complex legal arguments, Justice Allan Austin
promised to decide this morning if the meeting can go ahead.

Legal issue

He said he won't consider the merger's merits or the hospital politics in his
ruling, but only the legal issue of whether the meeting was properly called.

The Women's College board says the merger with the giant Toronto Hospital is the
only way to save the 70-year-old institution, which is $3 million in debt and in
danger of losing its status as a teaching hospital.

Merger opponents say it will destroy the unique character of the hospital.

Trisha Jackson, the board's lawyer, argued yesterday that the court should stop
the general membership meeting as members don't have the legal power to do most
of the things on the meeting agenda, she said.

Anti-merger group

Lawyers for the anti-merger coalition argued members have the power to do the
things on the agenda, including turfing out pro-merger directors and electing a
new slate.

The two sides also disagreed about who makes up the hospital membership and
whether they were all notified of the meeting.

The hospital has more than 3,000 members, or financial supporters, according to
a list prepared at the direction of the hospital president.

But Jackson said hospital officials recently discovered an error in the list.

More than 300 people inadvertently left off the original list haven't been
notified of the meeting, as required by law.Women's; College; Hospital; Toronto

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              364 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                             May 24, 2014 Saturday

Legal bid to stop hospital changes

BYLINE: BY RICHARD AULT

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 441  words


A LEGAL challenge has been launched against the decision to downgrade Stafford
Hospital.

Labour's Parliamentary candidate for Stafford, Kate Godfrey, has lodged papers
at Birmingham High Court, applying for a judicial review.

The decision to downgrade the hospital was made by Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt,
after he accepted the final report of the Trust Special Administrators (TSA) and
presented it to Parliament.

That recommended dissolving the Mid-Staffordshire NHS Trust and the loss of key
services at Stafford Hospital, including paediatric care and assessment,
consultant-led maternity services and the permanent downgrading of A&E to a
daytime service, and downgrading of the critical care services.

Services lost to Stafford will be transferred to the University Hospital of
North Staffordshire.  But David Cameron has  insisted on a further inquiry to
see if consultant-led childbirth can stay at Stafford after all.

In her legal challenge, submitted late yesterday, Miss Godrey argues that
analysis carried out by the TSA was flawed and should not have been accepted by
Mr Hunt.

Miss Godfrey also believes the decision to downgrade the hospital fails the
people of Stafford and denies patients choice.

The 33-year-old, who lives in Stafford, said: "I think Stafford Hospital should
be able to provide the services that people value.

"If we don't go all out to stop the downgrade it will set a precedent. The idea
that small hospitals have a future will go away.

"In the town, there is a great deal of fear about what will happen if services
are removed. Services are intertwined.

"You can't have maternity services without critical care. By removing key
services you take the financial heart out of a hospital.

"The consultation was a mockery - 500 people were locked out of meetings when
too many people turned up."

Sue Hawkins, chairman of campaign group Support Stafford Hospital, said: "We
have worked hard to scrutinise the process and final decision.

"We have also taken legal advice, which led the group to agree our best course
of action is to pursue other legal options, including a possible future judicial
review into other aspects of the process.

"We are continuing to actively explore these options, while scrutinising the
ongoing transition of governance of the trust and campaigning for increased
transparency and equal representation on the new trust board."

Stoke-on-Trent South Labour MP Rob Flello said: "I hope the High Court challenge
is resolved quickly. I support Stafford having a good and proper hospital that
suits the needs of the local people, but at the same time we need to make sure
there are no adverse effects at UHNS."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                B - Main Edition

Hospital in libel battle

BYLINE: STEPHANIE BEDO bedos@goldcoast.com.au

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 443  words


HEALTH

ONE of the Gold Coast's top hospitals is fighting to remove from the internet
material claiming its staff were responsible for the death of a patient.

The hospital says the material is defamatory.

Paradise Point man Charles Dupois launched a crusade against Allamanda Private
Hospital three months ago after his father, Antoine Chakra, died unexpectedly on
July 11.

Mr Chakra, 89, had been admitted to the rehabilitation department on June 22
following extensive cancer treatment.

Mr Dupois and his family claim doctors acted inadequately in Mr Chakra's
treatment and care.

Mr Dupois, who has a background in film and television, has since gone on to
make several YouTube videos critical of the hospital and its staff.

The videos were removed from the web after Minter Ellison lawyers, on behalf of
Allamanda's owner Healthscope, warned Mr Dupois to take them down.

But Mr Dupois has since created a new website detailing his father's lengthy
medical history and naming all medical staff and executives he claims were
involved in the treatment of Mr Chakra.

Healthscope is aware of the site and is taking legal action to have it removed,
as well as further references on search engine Google.

Yesterday the company confirmed its strong legal stance on the issue, saying it
was important staff were protected from potential defamation.

Numerous hospital sources have told the Bulletin several junior and senior
Allamanda staff members have been threatened and intimidated by Mr Dupois.

He denied the claims.

``I have not been rude to anyone whatsoever,'' he said. ``I was never aggressive
or threatening in any form or shape.

``They're only saying that because they don't have a leg to stand on.''

Gold Coast CIB acting inspector Chris Toohey said police investigated Mr
Chakra's death before handing the case to the coroner.

He said police had no further involvement in the matter.

Yesterday a Department of Justice spokesman confirmed the Coroner was awaiting
the results of an autopsy report to determine whether Mr Chakra's death required
further investigation.

Mr Dupois said he was taking legal action against the hospital and its staff. He
said Healthscope would not succeed in having his content removed from the
internet.

``They can pull it down but it's going to go back up - a million times if it has
to - until the truth comes out,'' he said.

One of Mr Dupois's supporters, Dr John Tan, a cardiothoracic surgeon based at
Paradise Point, said there were some points in his case that were valid.

``I don't think Charles was properly consulted,'' he said.

``This is not good publicity and as far as I can see it, Allamanda has done
nothing to defend its position.''

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            South China Morning Post

                                 June 28, 2003

Six families to sue over virus deaths

BYLINE: Elaine Wu

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 390 words


At least six families of deceased Sars victims have decided to sue the Hospital
Authority over its handling of the outbreak.

Meanwhile, one more death was reported in Hong Kong yesterday.

A member of one family, who gave her name as Ms Lee, said that if her
grandmother had been diagnosed and given proper treatment sooner, she might have
survived.

Ms Lee's grandmother died after contracting Sars at the North District Hospital
last month.

"I want the North District Hospital or the Hospital Authority to admit that they
did something wrong," Ms Lee said.

Of the five other families considering a lawsuit, two had relatives treated in
Tuen Mun Hospital.

The remaining three were treated in North District Hospital, Tseung Kwan O
Hospital and Baptist Hospital.

The Society for Community Organisation is helping the families apply for legal
aid and following up their complaints with hospitals.

The Legal Aid Department said yesterday it had received four formal
applications, which would take three months to process.

"We are not really doing it for the money because you can never get back the
lives of these people," said Tim Pang Hung-cheong, a patients' right advocate at
the community organisation.

"What we want is to reveal the truth and to get justice."

Mr Pang said that people who might have a case against the hospitals involve
family members who contracted Sars through cross-infection at the hospital;
those who did not immediately receive treatment after showing obvious Sars
symptoms; and those who were not diagnosed with Sars until they died and did not
receive treatment.

He said those who contracted the disease at a hospital after late April would
have a stronger case because doctors were by then better equipped to handle the
outbreak.

Separately, a group of about 30 nurses who contracted and recovered from Sars
met legal advisers this week to see whether they have a case to sue their
employers for negligence.

Yesterday, a 58-year-old became the third resident from Sha Tin's Lek Yuen
Estate to die from Sars, the Department of Health said, bringing the total
number of deaths to 297.

The woman, who suffered from chronic illness, contracted the disease in the
residential building and was admitted to Alice Ho Miu Ling Nethersole Hospital
on May 15.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2003 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              367 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                August 20, 1997

Legislator vow on inquest aid

BYLINE: JANE MOIR

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 469 words


Families who fear hospital negligence may have killed their relatives received a
pledge from medical legislator Dr Leong Che-hung last night to help them obtain
legal aid for inquests.

Patients' rights groups say the lack of legal assistance for obtaining coroner's
inquests means negligence cases may be going unrecorded. The groups fear the
actual number of inquests - there have been 57 over the past six years - does
not reflect the true situation.

"Families are not economically able to employ a lawyer (to obtain an inquest),"
Patients' Rights Association spokesman Yung Wai-mui said. "It's not fair, not
good for the relatives," she said, citing cases where families gave up because
of financial difficulties.

Dr Leong said last night: "Without legal help, it's very difficult for anybody,
especially when it concerns something quite sensitive for relatives who want to
go into detail and ask meaningful questions (in the court).

"At the end of the day we must push for legal aid," he said. "The Government has
promised to look into the whole issue."

Of the 57 inquests carried out between 1991 and 1996 on patients who died
following surgery or other medical procedures, 24 recorded death by natural
causes.

Fifteen verdicts of death by misadventure were recorded by the coroner, two
listed accidental death aggravated by lack of care, and another four were
accidents.

Ms Yung fears the lack of accessibility to the Coroner's Court and civil action
- only half her clients' applications are successful - means many cases go
unrecorded. She cited one case involving a 74-year-old woman who died after
receiving 50 milligrams more than the recommended dose of an antibiotic at
Grantham Hospital.

It fell upon the relatives to request an inquest.

A spokesman for Grantham said yesterday that the woman died of a heart failure
and that "the hospital considers the cause of death was unrelated to the
Gentamicin (antibiotic) given".

Dr Leong has also requested a report from the Hospital Authority assessing the
level of clinical supervision at public hospitals.

The Hospital Authority confirmed yesterday that an 82-year-old woman had died at
Queen Mary Hospital when oxygen was pumped into her veins instead of into an air
cushion.

An anaethesia tube and a tube to pump air into a cushion under the patient's
neck had been confused, deputy director Lawrence Lai Fook-ming told the
provisional legislature. An assistant had hooked up the wrong tube.

"We found out that the two tubes were mixed up as the cushion didn't inflate
when air was pumped into it", Mr Lai said. "We tried our best to save the
patient but to no avail."

He said the family had been told immediately after the incident in April and the
case had been referred to the Coroner's Court.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1997 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              368 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                     February 5, 2002 Tuesday Final EDITION

A future for the Montfort

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 475 words


After a five-year political and legal fight, supporters of the Montfort Hospital
are triumphant. Ontario Health Minister Tony Clement says the province was wrong
to try to close the hospital. The fight, however, took a lot out of the
Montfort's champions; it will take considerable effort to put this institution
back on its feet.

The Montfort is the east-end Ottawa hospital for francophone residents of
Eastern Ontario. At one stage, Ontario's Health Services Restructuring
Commission wanted to shut down the hospital. When that resulted in a national
uproar over minority rights, the commission watered down its recommendation,
suggesting that the Montfort stay open in a limited role. The hospital's
supporters rallied, there was a legal challenge and the hospital won. It won
again on appeal. The government finally has decided to stop the legal fight.

The hospital's victory has come at a stiff price. Its chief executive, Gerald
Savoie, says the Montfort has experienced about a 90-per-cent turnover in staff
over the last five years, a loss due largely to uncertainty over the hospital's
future. The loss of staff was worsened by the recruitment campaigns of other
hospitals, some of which used bonuses to recruit nurses.

The hospital has a deficit of $3.2 million on its $52-million-a-year budget. And
while the Montfort is supposed to be a 252-bed facility, it is only operating
between 160 and 200 beds. At times the Montfort's emergency department, which
did not close, has had to direct ambulances to other hospitals because it didn't
have the staff to handle them.

Montfort administrators also feel they have been left out of the action for the
last several years. For instance, when some rehabilitation beds were distributed
in Ottawa -- used by patients recovering from operations such as hip
replacements -- the Montfort did not get any of these beds. As well, officials
say its financial support per case from the Ministry of Health is lower than
what other hospitals receive. The hospital also has an ambitious $69-million
redevelopment and expansion project planned.

There is, though, some reason for optimism. The hospital is getting its renewed
mandate from the Ontario government at the same time as the Ottawa Hospital is
struggling to find ways to get routine medical cases out of its expensive,
high-tech beds. The Ottawa Hospital also has simply too many patients to handle.
In areas such as obstetrics, the Montfort may be able to ease the patient load
if it gets some staffing help from The Ottawa Hospital.

Ottawa needs community-hospital beds and the Montfort is there, with an eager
management and rave reviews for care from patients who have been surveyed by the
Ontario government. Its legal fight behind it, the Montfort can be an important
player in the future health of this city.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                             August 3, 2007 Friday

Let's start building treatment centre

BYLINE:  Vicki Mathias v.mathias

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 435 words


Calls have been made for the health service to press ahead with plans for an
independent treatment centre in Emersons Green.

An appeal judge threw out a legal challenge to the proposed centre this week and
now South Gloucestershire's Labour leader is calling for NHS South West to move
on without further delay.

Councillor Roger Hutchinson (Lab, Filton) wants NHS South West, who are behind
the scheme, to push ahead with the centre, which will carry out about four per
cent of procedures currently undertaken in acute hospitals.

The Emersons Green independent sector treatment centre (ISTC) would be joined by
another in Hengrove and will be run jointly by the NHS and private firm, UK
Specialist Hospitals.

The idea is to speed up waiting times for patients who need orthopaedic, ear,
nose and throat, plastic surgery, gynaecology, general surgery and urology
services.

Legal proceedings launched by Rebecca Fudge, of Save Frenchay Hospital Group
(SFHG), delayed the signing of the contract for the centre.

Mr Hutchinson said: "Because this legal action was being pursued, the final
contract between the NHS and the preferred operator of the treatment centre was
not signed.

"The judges are explicit that progress has been 'unnecessarily' delayed, and
have even provided us with us a figure - approximately 33,000 of the procedures
and 52,000 of the diagnostic assessments which it was planned to provide each
year.

"In several places the judges drive home the point that the centre and this
court case have nothing to do with other changes to NHS hospital provision.

"Despite this, the legal action has created an air of uncertainty and it is
imperative that we now move on.

"The NHS must now press ahead with the modernisation programme outlined in the
Bristol Health Services Plan - which the judges said was 'the subject of proper
public consultation and has never been impugned'."

The three appeal judges criticised the cost of the legal action to the NHS but
also upheld part of the complaint, stating that there should have been more
consultation on the matter.

Colin Hunt, (Con, Emersons Green), is also involved in SFHG, and is puzzled that
a new centre is being built when there is already a hospital at Frenchay.

He said: "I don't want to stop an independent hospital being built, that's the
last thing I want.

"What I disagree with is that they are closing Frenchay and building a private
hospital less than a mile away, which seems illogical to me.

"The Government is telling us that we must build thousands and thousands of
houses in North Bristol and South Gloucestershire, yet they are closing the
hospital."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       The Herald (Sharon, Pennslyvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 9, 2017 Thursday

Latest Sharon Regional deal easier

BYLINE: Michael Roknick, The Herald, Sharon, Pa.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 570 words


March 09--SHARON -- Sharon Regional Health System is looking for a healthy deal.

This isn't about health -- it's all about business. With 1,100 full-time
equivalent employees, Sharon Regional is Mercer County's largest employer.
That's why a pending agreement to sell the healthcare provider has drawn wide
interest.

But with Sharon Regional having gone through a sale just three years ago,
questions have surfaced whether this latest deal is different. And the answer is
yes -- this sale process will be much easier.

Sharon Regional's owner, Community Health Systems Inc., reached a sales
agreement last month to sell Sharon Regional and seven other of its hospital
systems to Boston-based Steward Health Care.

The regional deal includes the Ohio hospitals Northside Medical Center in
Youngstown, Trumbull Memorial Hospital in Warren, and Hillside Rehabilitation
Hospital in Howland Township. Also on the list are Easton (Pa.) Memorial
Hospital and three sites in Florida: Wuesthoff Medical Centers in Melbourne and
Rockledge and Sebastian River Medical in Sebastian.

Facing a major debt load and lower profits, Tennessee-based CHS said last year
it was looking to sell a number of its hospital systems.

CHS bought Sharon Regional three years ago. But from a legal and business point
of view, this latest deal has major differences.

Probably the biggest contrast is that the for-profit CHS bought Sharon Regional
when it was a nonprofit organization. When such a situation occurs, there are
mountains of legal hurdles at the federal and state level that must be met.

The CHS sales agreement had to be submitted to the state Attorney General's
office for review. The deal was given the OK by the AG's office and shortly
later also got the required approval from the Mercer County Court of Common
Pleas.

While at times that legal process may have been cumbersome, it actually went
fairly smoothly.

By contrast, Jameson Hospital in New Castle found itself at odds with the AG's
office over its sale to UPMC. Both organizations are nonprofits. The sale took
more than a year of legal wrangling before all the parties reached an agreement.

Another big difference in sales agreements is that CHS bought the assets of
Sharon Regional from its nonprofit ownership, while Steward is looking to buy
the healthcare provider as an ongoing, private business.

Under the asset sale, all the physical properties of Sharon Regional from its
hospital all the way down to tongue depressors became the possession of CHS. But
it did not take over all the legacy costs, including such things as employee
pensions and ongoing legal suits.

Instead, those costs remained with the remnants of the nonprofit Sharon
Regional, which took the name of Christian H. Buhl Legacy Trust. After all those
costs had been dealt with, the trust had $21.9 million left over.

Last May Mercer County Judge Christopher St. John approved a petition to
transfer the funds to the new Buhl Regional Health Foundation. The foundation
will use the funds for health programs to serve the community.

Steward and Sharon Regional are for-profit businesses, so the money that changes
hands in the upcoming sale will be from their respective owners.

No sales price has been given for Sharon Regional. The sale is expected to be
completed in the upcoming months.

___ (c)2017 The Herald (Sharon,Pa) Visit The Herald (Sharon,Pa) at
www.sharonherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170309-XS-Latest-Sharon-Regional-deal-easier-0309-20170309

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XS


                           Copyright 2017 The Herald


                              371 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       March 17, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Fangchenggang Out of the New 'Mass Line' of the
Internet Age

LENGTH: 1104  words


Beijing, March 17 -- Since last year, Fangchenggang City Intermediate People's
Court accurately grasp the pulse of the times, the mass line applied to the
online world, sincerely to visit the people, listen to voice of the people,
observing public opinion, the people to worry, worked out a new "mass line" one
of the Internet age .



Since March 26, 2013 the official opening of the hospital in Sina official
microblogging site since released a total of 530 tweets, pink Sida 28,291
people. Hospital full use microblogging timely release legal advice, publicity
announcements, dynamic job information; occasional exposure for execution, the
trial webcast, court open days and other special reports, accepted their advice,
complaint; interaction with users, by users Commentary understand people's
concerns and points of interest in the work of the courts, timely response to
social concerns, so that the Court closer to the people, down to earth.

Trial live - to create "convenient court" on the phone

At 9:00 on November 12th 2013 and more attention to the hospital all the 28,000
Weibo users are on their mobile client to see such a real-time micro-Bo: "Hello
Hello, everyone, today we live our hospital Three people open court hearing the
appellant Liu  Long, Lu Jin refuses to accept Fangchenggang  ShangXi think
County People's Court (2013) Min Chu Zi No. 58 on motor vehicle accident
liability dispute case. case by the judge GUO Chuan-million Meng Zhi phase,
Acting Judge Liu Yu Adams formed a collegiate bench, GUO Chuan-million as the
presiding judge, clerk of court records ...... Liang Ching as "hospital
microblogging fans friends all know, this is the second instance in parallel
civil hospital together Cases courtroom microblogging live events.

The judge hearing the case in court, while the field hospital microblogging
managers also in the form of long microblogging engaged in real-time broadcast
graphics on Sina Weibo. Confirm the identity of the parties, both parties hear a
brief view of pleadings, summary cases the focus of controversy, the burden of
proof in all aspects of cross-examination, the court ordered the law, such as
the debate unfolds. To protect the privacy of the parties, microblogging
managers also will be the name, address, date of birth and other private
information in a timely processing technology, a process of trial and content
onto the Internet and to the public. Users can open anytime, anywhere mobile
client for legal cases of interest to a "sit", so that their true from one vivid
example of cases secondary to common legal knowledge, but also to exercise the
right of citizen oversight of the administration of justice, to achieve "
win-win "good results.

To effectively do microblogging live events, arrange for someone in charge of
the hospital every three days ahead of the trial were broadcast on Sina
"Fangchenggang City Intermediate People's Court," the official microblogging
notice, while creating "Fangchenggang trial live" micro topic within the scope
of the city The live event broadcast unified management and facilitate users in
advance to arrange a time and to listen.

Featured Stories - someone else's story, his inspiration

"In today's society, cohabitation, trial marriage, bastards and so appear more
and more around us, but when those cohabiting couple parted ways, these
illegitimate children how to protect the interests of the child's upbringing and
who is responsible? 2014 On March 10, Dongxing City People's Court together
successfully mediated illegitimate daughter alimony disputes. sides reached an
agreement to raise her daughter by the woman, the man to pay a monthly fee of
800 yuan to raise her daughter at least 18 years of age ...... "3 On 14 May, the
hospital recently closed a selection of grassroots courts of a Case, by selected
social cases, causing users to respect the moral and behavior of food for
thought.

To help people identify clear "the court summons fraud" and other scam, the
official website of the hospital in the courts, the official micro-Bo, the
Court's electronic bulletin boards and so many media widely published "on the
alert again beware of telephone fraud criminals announcement" on the Court
summons people to reflect frequent trick involved fraud carried Revealed provide
practical skills to deal with such fraud. Among them, the microblogging platform
has been broadcast Hechi Court, district courts and other brothers Jinchengjiang
Court, the Court unanimously friends people consider in a review, and timely
information to the public convenience and practical approach represents a full
and certainly welcome.

In addition, the hospital also actual work for the users to provide "action
guide", "little knowledge of the law" and other practical legal tips on the "SMS
scams" and other scam conducted Secret, to remind people not to be deceived.

Legal Advice - netizens doubt by a judge to answer your questions personally

"User 'on in the sky,' Hello, thank you for your trust and support of our work
as the other side is the illegal possession for the purpose of hiding the truth
with fictional facts or methods to cheat the large amount of public and private
property, constitutes fraud sin. 'large amount' from the criminal standard
formulated by the country, the national standards are not the same, and if you
think that the other suspect a crime, you can report directly to the local
public security organs to deal with. "

April 9, 2013, the hospital legal advice on the issue, "the pseudonym arrears,
is not suspected of fraud, owned by the public security organs under the
jurisdiction of the scope of no return" in Ningbo on the official micro-blog
users, promptly provide a more simple and feasible legal advice.

After receiving questions from the users, the hospital in time to coordinate
business court staff to provide professional legal advice by the network office
personnel dedicated to the reply. It is reported that the hospital has this
convenient service normalization, arrange a day to collect, collate information,
after replying to the relevant and timely summary of the trial judge to perform
first-line views. Microblogging platform to expand the use of legal advisory
activities, on-site legal advice to break through the restrictions of time,
space and other aspects of the past, so that people can stay at home and easily
relies instead on legal issues involving the interests closely to understand
that the court do Meanwhile the trial implementation of the initiative to assume
more social responsibility, but also to meet the people in the new era of higher
quality requirements of justice.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               February 21, 2004

'MISTAKE' IN STUDY OF MMR

LENGTH: 150 words


FRESH doubts were last night cast on a study which linked the MMR vaccine with
autism.

It has been claimed the report which first highlighted the fears should not have
been published.

The study linking the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine with autism appeared in
medical journal The Lancet six years ago.

But editor Richard Horton says he would not have printed it if he had known
author Dr Andrew Wakefield was conducting studies for both the Royal Free
Hospital and the Legal Aid Board.

He said there was a conflict of interest.

Mr Horton added: "I do believe there was validity to the connection between
bowel disease and autism, but I believe the MMR element of that is invalid."

He added: "As the father of a three-year-old who's had MMR, I regret hugely the
adverse impact this paper has had."

The study led to a reduced take-up of MMR, which continues today.


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              373 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

Father: âEUR~I want justice, not money, for my dead son'

BYLINE: Carolina D'Souza Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 423 words


Dubai: Justice has been served in the case of a Pakistani resident who claimed
that a hospital's negligence resulted in the death of his 24-year-old son.

The father, Mansour Baloch, from Pakistan, had filed a complaint against Zuleka
Hospital with the Ministry of Health, which ruled in his favour earlier this
month. The ministry held the hospital responsible for the death of Asim Mansour
and said his father can seek legal action.

Baloch, however, is content with only the ruling from the ministry.

Speaking to Gulf News, he said, "I wanted the hospital and medical staff to be
held accountable for my loss. No compensation or legal action will bring my son
back."

The decision not to press legal charges was taken before Baloch filed a
complaint in May with the ministry.

"Even if I were offered money, I would give it to charity. A legal case may
affect someone's job and reputation - my family and I do not wish for that. We
only wanted justice and an apology saying that the hospital delayed medical
attention. I forgive the hospital/doctors for this negligence," said Baloch.

Gulf News first reported the case in July.

Asim, a thalassaemia patient, was undergoing regular blood transfusion and took
medication. He was a keen football player and was working in administration.

At the time, Baloch, a UAE resident since 1976, explained the sequence of events
leading to his son's death.

Asim, the second of four children, developed a high fever and was admitted to
Zulekha Hospital in Sharjah. He was discharged a few days later. After three
weeks, the son complained of severe, continuous headache. The father took him to
the same hospital.

Though Asim - conscious and able to walk - was taken to the emergency early in
the morning, his symptoms and medical history (thalassaemia and previous visits)
weren't taken seriously. The son's medical file had pending administrative
procedures, delaying the admission process.

By the time diagnostic tests were requested, Asim's condition worsened. A CT
(computed tomography) scan confirmed the presence of an abscess in the brain. He
died at 11pm.

Gulf News made several attempts to get a statement from Zulekha Hospital
regarding the deceased patient; however the hospital declined to comment.

Gulf News has obtained a copy of the decision by the ministry blaming the doctor
and hospital for the negligence. The ruling from the ministry stated: "The
doctor [from Zuleka Hospital] is guilty of malpractice. The doctor should have
admitted patient and carried out the appropriate diagnostic brain tests."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2013 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                              N - Canberra Edition

Surgeon sued over `botched' operation

BYLINE: Milanda Rout

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 331 words


A PAST patient of Thomas Kossmann, the former head of The Alfred hospital's
trauma unit, is suing the Melbourne doctor for damages over allegedly botched
shoulder surgery.

Joseph Bemelmans has launched legal action against Professor Kossmann in the
Victorian County Court in what is believed to be the first medical negligence
case filed against the surgeon.

The writ emerged a day after law firm Slater & Gordon flagged legal claims of
negligence against the German-born surgeon and The Alfred hospital by other
former patients.

Professor Kossmann resigned from his position as head of trauma surgery at the
Melbourne hospital in April after a damning peer review found he had conducted
risky surgery and had exaggerated his experience on his resume.

The three-month investigation, led by orthopedic surgeon Bob Dickens, also found
Professor Kossmann invoiced Victoria's Transport Accident Commission, the
WorkCover Authority and Medicare Australia for operations he did not perform and
surgery that was unnecessary. It also alleged he had put lives at risk with
bungled surgery that involved grave errors in more than half of the 24 cases
examined.

Documents lodged with the County Court this week and obtained by The Australian
reveal Mr Bemelmans is suing Professor Kossmann, the operators of The Alfred
hospital, Bayside Health, Epworth Hospital as well as another surgeon, and two
other hospitals for medical negligence.

Mr Bemelmans claims both the surgeons and hospitals ``failed to provide
appropriate treatment and care'' and the failure to do this resulted in their
negligence.

His lawyer, Sharon McRae, said the legal action was still in the ``preliminary
stages'' and they had not yet served the writ on Professor Kossmann or the other
five parties named in it.

Professor Kossmann has denied any wrongdoing and has blamed complaints from
doctors about his surgery on competitive jealousy. A spokeswoman last night said
Professor Kossmann was unaware of any legal action against him.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 21, 2014
                                 First Edition

Hospital threatens to evict elderly patients;
COVER STORY

BYLINE: Ian Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 487 words


A hospital is threatening to take legal action to evict mainly elderly patients
whose relatives refuse to take them home when they are well enough to leave.

An official at Royal Bournemouth Hospital said one family had asked staff to
"keep hold" of a relative so they could go on holiday to Turkey for two weeks.

However, a recent report by Healthwatch Dorset included comments from patients
treated by the same hospital trust who claimed they felt under pressure to leave
before they were ready.

Katie Whiteside, a spokesman for the hospital, said: "At the moment, we have
relatives coming back telling us they don't like the decor of care homes, or
they don't like the member of staff who met them at the door. Sometimes they are
decorating the house or having a 'granny annexe' built and they know that, while
the patients are here, they are being fed, watered and looked after."

On Wednesday, there were 70 people on the wards who did not need to be there and
about half had somewhere suitable to be, according to the hospital.

Patients who are well enough to leave are to be given a week's notice to go or
potentially face legal action.

"We would be in a position to commence legal proceedings and formally evict a
patient if that was necessary. It would be an absolute last resort but it's
something we are in a position to do with the solicitors here at the trust," Ms
Whiteside said.

She said seriously ill patients had sometimes had to wait on trolleys or in
corridors and operations had been cancelled because of a lack of beds.

Dr Louise Irvine, of the National Health Action Party, who is standing against
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt at the next general election, said: "Hospitals
throughout the country are being very tightly squeezed financially and suffering
cuts in beds so there is very little slack in the system. To make matters worse,
hospitals are penalised if they keep on patients for any longer than agreed
time-frames," she said, stressing she could not comment on individual cases.

Ben Grower, a local Labour councillor, said Bournemouth hospital was "under
pressure" but said threatening legal action was wrong. "It is not the patient's
fault that social services don't have the funds to meet their needs," he said.
"There will always be the one odd case of unacceptable bed-blocking ?? but any
action by Bournemouth hospital trust like this is a sledgehammer to crack a
nut."

Martyn Webster, manager of Healthwatch Dorset, the local health and care
watchdog, said: "People need to work together to sort this - the hospital
working with patient's families, carers, friends, and other people like social
services, community groups and charities to give patients the support they
need."

No one at the hospital was available for comment last night.

Royal Bournemouth and Christchurch Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust reported in
June that its budget deficit was at £652,000 in the first month of this
financial year.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 18, 1997, Friday

LEGAL EAGLES SWOOP ON THE GRAVY TRAIN;
ITA O'KELLY-BROWNE'S COLUMN

BYLINE: Ita O'Kelly-Browne

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1880 words


As the country reels from the Haughey revelations at the Payments To Politicians
Tribunal, it seems that we are on course for yet another tribunal.

But while Bertie Ahern might think that we need another hugely expensive
tribunal, the truth surely is that most of us could think of far better and more
urgent uses for public money.

Bertie said this week that he is deeply unhappy about what he heard during
Charlie Haughey's evidence at the Tribunal.

And his solution is another tribunal, once again funded by the taxpayer.

First we had the Beef Tribunal which lavishly lined the pockets of the legal
profession.

Then the same well-heeled legal eagles jumped back on the gravy at the Payments
To Politicians Tribunal.

They must be smacking their lips at the thought of a third bite of the cherry.

While millions of pounds are spent on establishing which rich businessman gave
what to which politician, our hospitals are being quietly shut down due to lack
of funding.

Tallaght has the same population as Limerick city and has waited for over a
decade for a hospital of its own.

This is now about to become a reality. But to make it happen the rest of
Dublin's hospitals are being closed down one by one.

Already gone are Dr Steven's, Marcier's, Sir Patrick Dunn's and Jervis Street.
And on the way out in the coming year are the Meath Hospital, Baggot Street,
Harcourt Street Children's Hospital and most likely the Adelaide too.

What this means is that almost everyone on the south side of the city will now
have to travel to Tallaght for hospital treatment.

For the elderly and those with children who do not have cars, this means a
ghastly wait for a bus.

Why is the Government closing down our city centre hospitals at a time when this
area is being regenerated?

More people live in the centre of Dublin today than ever before.

Yet most of us will now be forced to travel around ten miles to the outskirts of
the city to get to a hospital.

It would only cost around pounds 1million per year to keep the likes of the
Meath Hospital open with around 100 beds. Compare that to the pounds 35 million
cost of the Beef Tribunal.

I am quite sure that I speak for the majority of people when I say that we want
hospitals rather than tribunals.

I would certainly far rather have a local hospital than find out who gave
Charlie Haughey financial gifts over the last 30 years.

At this stage, I feel a bit like Rhett Butler did in Gone With The Wind.
Frankly, I don't give a damn.

DI CAN'T CHANGE HER LEOPARDSKIN SPOTS

For a woman who claims to spend most of her life avoiding being photographed,
Princess Diana sure as hell picked an eye-catching outfit for the cameras this
week.

Well I ask you - a leopardskin swimsuit is hardly a subtle way for a woman to
avoid male attentions, is it?

My advice to her, if she does decide to go and live abroad, is to avoid Ireland
at all costs.

Celebrity status holds little currency here and she could very easily end up
being ignored.

Somebody once described the aristocracy as being rich and thick.

Perhaps they should have included bored and overindulged as well.

EXIT STAGE LEFT

For a boy who grew up in a corporation house in Donnycarney and went to a
Christian Brother's School, you've got to admit Charlie Haughey does have a
certain class and style.

First he outwitted the entire media by arriving three hours early for the
Tribunal in Dublin Castle.

And then even though it was his darkest hour, he emerged and gave one of his
famously regal waves to the waiting crowds. If we are honest, we all loved every
tingling moment of it.

Even though he admitted that he lied through his teeth, CJ never lost his famous
composure.

He kept his gimlet eye on the matters in hand and had the brass neck to feign
memory loss.

Then he strolled out to his waiting chauffeur driven car in a scene of
Shakespearean high drama.

Will we ever see his likes again. Probably not.

Decency by-pass

I witnessed a sad sight this week when a drunken woman fell in the middle of the
road.

Astonishingly,

when the lights turned green, most of the traffic swerved to by-pass her and
continued on its way - with the honourable exception of a taxi driver.

If the Celtic Tiger means that we have lost all decency, then let's please have
our scrawny cat back.

Crime pays..

As most of us have suspected for a long time, more than 80 per cent of
burglaries, muggings and theft from cars are carried out by drug abusers to pay
for their habit.

The only way to solve such crime is to first solve the drug problem.  A major
investment in drug treatment programmes is needed alongside a programme to
eradicate the abundant street supply of heroin.

When will we learn?

It comes as a shock to learn that 25 per cent of the Irish population cannot
read or write to a functional level.

Yet university fees were recently abolished, which means that many of those who
are more than able to pay no longer have to.

As a result there is less cash in the pot to pay for a set-up of much- needed
adult literacy programmes.

Education should be for all.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DI: Avoid Ireland;; CASUALTY: Hospitals are closing while politicians
argue at expensive tribunals

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.


                              377 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             August 27, 2007 Monday

Widower hopes legal action against hospital will act as a wake-up call

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 395 words


Heart-broken Bill Clewlow has launched legal proceedings against the hospital
where his wife of almost 60 years contracted a deadly infection.

Millicent Clewlow, of Clayton Road, Clayton, was diagnosed with clostridium
difficile (C-diff) before she died at the University Hospital of North
Staffordshire.

Now Mr Clewlow, who says he is still struggling to come to terms with his wife's
death, has asked solicitor James Evans to pursue a legal claim against the
hospital.

He said: "My case is now in the hands of James A Evans & Co, Newcastle. I have
no doubt he will deal with this matter."

Mrs Clewlow, who would have celebrated her 60th wedding anniversary the day
after she died on August 1, had originally been admitted to the hospital in
January to have a toe amputated.

The surgery was needed after it became infected as a result of her diabetes, but
she had to return in April to have part of her leg removed.

Soon after the operation, Mr Clewlow says his wife developed diarrhoea, from
which she suffered until she died.

Tests for C-diff proved negative until just two days before her death.

Mr Clewlow added: "To everyone in North Staffordshire - wake up and do something
about this problem."

The hospital says it has yet to receive a legal claim from Mr Clewlow's
solicitors.

A hospital spokesman said: "Staff in all clinical areas have worked very hard to
reduce infection but, while cases of MRSA have reduced, C-diff cases have risen.

"In addition to the current infection control procedures in place, new
initiatives have been introduced.

"New cases of C-diff are reported to the chief executive on a daily basis, along
with actions taken in respect of each patient. This ensures that the protocols
are being followed.

"Two external experts are working with the board and clinicians to share
effective practice that is showing results in some other hospitals.

"There is no quick fix in reducing hospital acquired infections. Based on its
current numbers this year, the hospital is unlikely to achieve its target
reduction of C-diff, but the additional measures that have been put in place
should have a major impact."

Chief executive Julia Bridgewater said: "The care and safety of our patients is
my first concern and I am well aware of how important the control of infection
is to patients and their families.

"I am determined that we will achieve the best results we can."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           December 12, 1993, Sunday

LEGAL AID CUTS COVER UP HOSPITAL NEGLIGENCE

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 934 words


DOCTORS are getting away with serious blunders, and patients are increasingly
forced to put up with the consequences, as new legal aid rules make it harder to
sue for medical negligence.

The cost of going to law is deterring more and more people from seeking redress,
according to lawyers and patients' groups. Hospitals and National Health Service
trusts are also accused of deliberately using delaying tactics to increase legal
bills further and frighten potential complainants from going to court.

Some patients have suffered serious injuries and even lost their jobs or homes
because of medical negligence, according to the pressure group Action for
Victims of Medical Accidents (Avma). Keith Miles, the association's deputy
director, said: 'Doctors and hospitals are getting away with it. Because of
restrictions on legal aid, the ultimate option of going to court is now
effectively cut off.

'It is a scandal. Hospitals know that patients will not take action without
legal aid. Some are offering derisory ex gratia payments in the hope they will
go away. The worst of it is that in many cases patients cannot even afford to
find out whether they have a case in law.'

Lawyers who specialise in medical negligence are concerned at the number of
people abandoning legal action. 'It is becoming a serious problem. We are trying
to get justice, but it is getting more and more difficult,' said Ann Alexander,
a leading medical negligence lawyer.

Legal aid, the government scheme to help pay clients' legal bills, is intended
to promote better access to justice for people on low incomes. But to qualify,
plaintiffs must show they have a disposable income of less than pounds 7,500 a
year and savings of less than pounds 8,560.

In April, thousands of people lost their eligibility for legal aid when the
rules were changed. The basic disposable income below which legal aid is free
was cut to pounds 2,294. Above this, clients have to pay monthly
'contributions'. Previously, contributions were limited to a year; now they have
to be made for the duration of the case.

In addition, even the most perfunctory free legal advice is now restricted to
people earning less than pounds 61.50 a week ( pounds 3,198 a year), except for
those on income support or family credit. Someone injured as a result of a
hospital accident and receiving invalidity benefits of more than pounds 61.50 a
week would not be eligible for free legal advice.

The main problem in medical negligence cases is that lawyers cannot tell early
on whether their client has a strong case. In most instances, medical experts
are called in to assess the evidence and advise on whether there may be a case.
This can cost pounds 3,000 to pounds 5,000. But legal aid does not start until a
writ has been issued.

Even when clients are granted legal aid, they are frequently asked to contribute
up to pounds 180 a month for the duration of the case. Medical negligence cases
routinely last six or seven years.

The Law Society, the solicitors' governing body, estimates that 140,000 people
have been affected by changes in the legal aid rules, of which around 3,000 may
have been involved in medical negligence cases.

Roger Wicks, a London solicitor who is helping to set up a Law Society panel on
medical negligence, said: 'A vast number of people are not even getting as far
as having their cases investigated to see if there is good reason to go to
court. Anybody with a claim against the medical profession faces innumerable
obstacles from the moment the mistake is made, and this is making it worse.'

Jean Traynor, of the National Association of Health Authorities and Trusts, said
hospitals did not try to avoid paying compensation. 'People claiming damages
might think hospitals drag their feet. The problem is more with lawyers who make
cases last for as long as possible,' she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              379 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 15, 2005

The final insult

BYLINE: MATTHEW BAYLEY

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 476 words


PARENTS whose dead babies' organs were removed without their permission could be
left with as little as Pounds 500 compensation, it emerged yesterday.

Health Service officials are refusing to pay the legal bills of half the 1,348
families who won a Pounds 3.3million settlement last year.

As a result, some of the claimants, who were awarded Pounds 2,448 each in the
High Court deal, could be left with as little as Pounds 500.

Mr Justice Cage allowed the 1,348 families to claim damages for psychological
distress in his judgment last March.

But the NHS is refusing to pay legal bills averaging Pounds 1,500 each for more
than half of those involved, arguing that they were not psychologically
traumatised.

To make matters worse, the Legal Services Commission is demanding half the
parents return some of the legal aid it gave to fund their court action against
the NHS.

The protracted wrangling has outraged the families.

'The NHS is just rubbing salt into the wounds,' said Matt Redmond, whose
six-year-old daughter Karen had her heart removed without his permission at the
Diana, Princess of Wales, Children's Hospital in Birmingham.

'This has never been about the money. We have been fighting to get a change in
the legislation.' added Mr Redmond, who runs the Stolen Hearts Bereaved Parents'
Group.

'We are disgusted at how the NHS has treated us. Don't they realise no one is
going to get rich over this except lawyers? They are wasting taxpayers' money.
They're not suffering on a daily basis like we are.' The scandal broke six years
ago when it was revealed that for decades doctors had been removing dead
children's organs for research without parental permission.

The practice was uncovered initially at Liverpool's Alder Hey Hospital and
Bristol Royal Infirmary. But it later emerged that it was common in hospitals
across the country.

While more than 1,000 parents at Alder Hey received Pounds 5,000 compensation
each, victims elsewhere were forced to take their case to the High Court.

The NHS offered the families a Pounds 3.3million deal after a judge ruled
doctors acted illegally in retaining children's body parts during postmortem
examinations without their parents' permission.

The parents say if they are forced to settle their own legal costs, the
compensation they will be left with will be derisory. A spokesman for the NHS
Litigation Authority said yesterday: 'We have agreed the amount of compensation
with the families involved but we have not agreed lawyers' costs. Negotiations
are continuing.' Other hospitals involved in the case include the John Radcliffe
in Oxford, Addenbrooke's in Cambridge, Southampton General, the University
Hospital of Wales, East Kent Hospitals Trust, Lewisham University and the Royal
Liverpool Children's Hospital.

m.bayley@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: KAREN REDMOND: HEART WAS TAKEN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              380 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        Moonee Valley Leader (Australia)

                             May 17, 2017 Wednesday
                              MooneeValley Edition

LAWYER FOR SICK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 107  words


ROYAL Melbourne Hospital patients will have access to free legal advice in an
initiative involving a North Melbourne community legal firm.

The service combines the efforts of North Melbourne police, community legal
service lawyers and health practitioners. Georgina Hanna, a workforce
development manager at the hospital, said the initiative was designed to help
the vulnerable.

"We know that when people come to hospital, they tell us things in
confidentiality. They disclose things like legal issues, because we're trusted
health professionals," Ms Hanna said.A lawyer will provide free legal services
to patients at the hospital once a week.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Moonee Valley Leader


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 11, 1995

LEGAL AID FOR PATIENTS GIVEN LSD

BYLINE: Clare Dyer Legal Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 907 words


DOZENS of people given LSD in mental hospitals in the 1950s and 1960s have won
legal aid to investigate a possible claim for compensation.

The drug was administered to an estimated 4,500 patients in Britain, mainly with
symptoms of depression. Some claim to be still suffering side effects, including
flashbacks (mentally reliving experiences), psychoses and paranoia, more than 30
years later.

LSD, first used therapeutically with US alcoholics in the early 1950s, was
thought by some psychiatrists at the time to help patients regress to a
childlike state, allowing access to their "inner being" for treatment purposes.
Psychiatrists now recognise that the drug, banned in 1966, can tip those already
predisposed that way into schizophrenia.

Legal aid has been granted to the law firm Alexander Harris, which specialises
in medical negligence. The firm, which has asked a consultant psychiatrist to
research the background to the medical use of LSD, took on the case after being
approached by Ken Purchase, Labour MP for Wolverhampton North East.

Mr Purchase, who has compiled a dossier of nearly 80 cases, said: "The more I
looked into this, the more I was concerned about what had happened to people."

Psychiatric use of LSD in Britain was pioneered at Powick hospital in Malvern,
Hereford and Worcester, where about 700 people are thought to have received it.

Three other hospitals - Clifton in York, Marlborough hospital in Wiltshire and
Roffey Park in Lincolnshire - were leading centres, but the drug was used by
more than 70 doctors in Britain.

If the case goes ahead claims will be launched against the health authorities
responsible for the hospitals.

Mr Myers said: "One of the issues is the extent to which individuals were warned
of side effects." Georgina Lanaway, of Whitby, North Yorkshire, given the drug
in 1963 after she was admitted to Clifton hospital with post-natal depression,
said: "They just told me they were giving me an injection to find out what was
making me ill." A nurse told her later it was LSD.

The past 32 years of her life are a catalogue of unhappiness: two failed
marriages, suicide attempts and several "nervous breakdowns". Now aged 50, she
has been stable for the past two years on Prozac after undergoing more than 30
sessions of electric shock therapy.

The claimants' main hurdle will be to prove that the LSD and not the illnesses
for which they were treated caused their later problems. They will also have to
show that doctors were negligent in the way they used the drug.

One expert who has reviewed the research papers on LSD said these showed that
people who took the drug could have flashbacks and other side effects years
later.

Malcolm Lader, professor of clinical psychopharmacology at the University of
London's Institute of Psychiatry, said: "Reviews of the literature would suggest
a proportion of people do get continuing problems of this type - flashbacks,
bouts of depression." A number of side effects would have been documented by the
late 1950s, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              382 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   September 30, 1997, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Doctors Hospital quits legal battle

BYLINE: BY RITA DALY TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. F3

LENGTH: 211 words


Doctors Hospital has given up a legal fight to stay open.

Faced with financial and community pressures, the hospital opted not to launch
an appeal of a Divisional Court ruling that confirmed the Health Services
Restructuring Commission's power to close it down.

Instead, it is ready to sit down with Toronto Hospital and negotiate, Doctors
Hospital president Brian McFarlane said yesterday.

"This is a new chapter. We have to move on," he said.

Doctors Hospital, in the city's west end, is slated to be closed by the end of
next year and its programs moved to Toronto's Western division where an
ambulatory care centre will be set up.

The deadline to file an appeal was today1, but McFarlane said the case wouldn't
have been heard until the new year.

"That's time and money - and time is money," he said.

The hospital has already spent more than $ 200,000 in legal costs fighting its
closing, he added.

Doctors was among four Metro hospitals that launched court actions against the
restructuring commission's decision to close them down. Women's College
Hospital, Orthopaedic and Arthritic Hospital, and Wellesley Central Hospital
have all now agreed to negotiate at the table, although Wellesley has also
served notice of an appeal.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              383 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Chennai Online

                          October 7, 2016 6:30 AM EST

O.Panneerselvam to be Tamil Nadu's new Chief Minister?

LENGTH: 285  words


Chennai: There is no need for temporary Chief Minister in Tamil Nadu till such
time that Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa gets fully recovered and resumes normal
activities, said a spokesperson of the ruling AIADMK.

"There is no legal necessity for that, he added.

The 68-year-old Jayalalithaa was admitted to Apollo Hospitals on September 22
for fever and dehydration.

On Thursday, the consensus opinion of all experts at the Apollo Hospitals was
that Jayalalithaa will require a longer stay in the hospital and the line of
treatment given to Jayalalithaa should be continued.

"The present treatment regimen includes continued respiratory support,
neubilisation, drugs to decongest the lungs, antibiotics, nutrition, general
nursing care and supportive therapy," Apollo Hospitals said.

The hospital said Jayalalithaa is making gradual progress but did not say for
how long she may have to stay in the hospital.

Speaking in pressmeet, AIADMK spokesperson Avadi Kumar said: "There is no need
for a temporary or substitute Chief Minister at the current juncture. There is
also no legal necessity."

According to him, Jayalalithaa is conscious and is recovering.

Kumar said when there were legal hurdles in Jayalalithaa holding the Chief
Minister's post, Finance Minister O. Panneerselvam was sworn in as the Chief
Minister.

Once the legal problems were sorted out, Jayalalithaa was sworn in as the Chief
Minister again.

He said AIADMK founder, the late M.G. Ramachandran, won the assembly election in
1984 while he was in a hospital in Brooklyn, US. He was sworn in as Chief
Minister on his arrival.

Kumar said the late DMK leader Murasoli Maran was in hospital for a long time as
a Union Minister without portfolio till he died.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


 Copyright 2016 Chennai Interactive Business Services (P) Ltd., distributed by
                                  Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday

Whistleblower's attorneys seek $10M from Halifax Health

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 886  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- Halifax Health's bill to resolve a whistleblower lawsuit
accusing the hospital of Medicare fraud will swell even larger when attorney
fees are considered.

Facts

Largest hospital fraud cases

Halifax Health's $85 million settlement is the largest amount ever paid in a
Stark Law case, according to Taxpayers Against Fraud, a Washington, D.C.-based
organization supported by whistleblower attorneys.

Tuomey Healthcare System in Sumter, S.C., was recently ordered to pay $237.5
million in a Stark Law case, but the matter is still being litigated. Other
hospital fraud cases involving different violations have produced much larger
payouts than Halifax Health's suit but not all the claims in the Daytona Beach
hospital's case have been resolved. Other cases:

Tenet Healthcare Corp.: $900 million (2006)

Columbia HCA: $731.4 million (2000)

Columbia HCA: $631 million (2003)

HealthSouth: $325 million (2004)

St. Barnabas Hospitals: $265 million (2006)

SOURCE: Taxpayers Against Fraud

The 678-bed public system must pay $85 million to settle some of the claims
brought by whistleblower Elin Baklid-Kunz when she sued in 2009. The
whistleblower's attorneys are also seeking about $10 million in legal fees on
top of the settlement amount.

Add roughly $21 million that Halifax Health has spent on its own defense, and
the hospital system could be on the hook for as much as $116 million.

The $10 million in legal fees is reasonable considering what Halifax Health has
spent on its own legal defense so far, said Lin Wood, an attorney representing
Baklid-Kunz.

The U.S. Department of Justice intervened in 2011 and supported the case,
accusing the hospital of maintaining illegal contracts with doctors and
submitting false Medicare claims. Wood said the hospital took a "scorched-earth
approach" to defending the case.

"We have certainly extended the olive branch in our initial demands," Wood said.
"Halifax took what should have been a fairly straightforward case, and their
lawyers fought every issue. They fought every document request. They took
positions that were clearly unreasonable. We had to spend a lot of time and a
lot of money to fight them on what should have been a battle that never needed
to be fought."

John Guthrie, Halifax Health spokesman, said the hospital is reviewing the
whistleblower's initial request for legal fees. He declined to respond to Wood's
statements, citing pending litigation. The hospital could contest the legal
fees, and the court would decide the matter. Hospital officials deny the
whistleblower's allegations and say they never committed fraud.

The price tag doesn't include the next part of the case that is set for trial in
July. Baklid-Kunz is alleging Halifax Health admitted patients for unneeded
hospital stays of two days or less and is seeking more than $246.5 million on
those claims, which the Justice Department did not intervene on.

While those claims are still pending, Halifax Health agreed to settle the
portion of Baklid-Kunz's suit, which was supported by the Justice Department,
for $85 million, which it must pay within 10 days of the agreement being
finalized. The hospital agreed to abide by a five-year corporate integrity
agreement. As a result, the hospital will be required to hire a legal reviewer
and compliance officer. They will report regularly to the federal government.

As the whistleblower, Baklid-Kunz and her attorneys will get $20.8 million of
the settlement amount. The attorneys will receive a portion of that based on a
contingency fee, which they would not disclose. Baklid-Kunz still works at the
hospital as director of physician services, earning an annual salary of $92,081.

Halifax Health officials denied liability in the settlement, except that they
violated the Stark Law, which prohibits hospitals from paying doctors based on
referrals and volume. The Justice Department says such employment arrangements
can create financial conflicts of interest that lead to unnecessary medical
procedures and drive up health care costs.

On Tuesday, the hospital notified bondholders that it would violate some of the
promises it made on its debt. The hospital will tap into its funded depreciation
account -- money set aside to replace aging equipment and other assets -- to pay
the settlement. Hospital officials told bondholders they plan to be back in
compliance with the terms of their bonds by March 2015.

With a cash reserve of about $420 million, Halifax Health is in a position to
pay additional damages, said Marlan Wilbanks, another of Baklid-Kunz's
attorneys.

Hospital officials have declined to discuss their specific financial strategy
moving forward but say they will re-examine their strategic plan. In a memo sent
to employees before the settlement was finalized, Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel
wrote it would be paid for by belt-tightening and the potential delay of some
capital expenditures, instead of raising taxes. At that time, hospital officials
expected they would have several years to pay the settlement instead of 10 days.

The parties are not in settlement talks on the remaining claims, Wood said.

"I am always willing to listen," Wood said. "Right now, I don't anticipate a
settlement. I am preparing my own scorched-earth prosecution for trial. It will
be a no-holds-barred prosecution of Halifax hospital before a jury."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              385 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     November 3, 1995, Friday, City Edition

Hospital tug of war getting pricey

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



Convincing voters to sell their local hospital isn't cheap. Neither is  warding
off a corporate giant like Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.

So far the city has spent almost $ 142,000 to do just that, according to  city
finance reports that cover the period from March until now.

Much of that cost - $ 128,617 - has been in legal fees to attorney Barbara
Pankau and her Tampa law firm, Honigman, Miller, Schwartz and Cohn.

In July, City Manager Costa Vatikiotis had estimated that legal bills would
range between $ 50,000 and $ 100,000.

The City Commission hired Pankau in February to advise it on a partnership  deal
Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital officials wanted to strike with Columbia.  The
commission ultimately harpooned that deal but retained Pankau, who has
continued to advise it on its drive to sell the hospital.

Voters will decide in a Nov. 14 referendum whether the commission should be
able to sell the 150-bed hospital, which is owned by the city but run by a
private foundation. Hospital officials are opposed to selling the hospital.

Besides attorneys' fees, the city has spent $ 10,630 to advertise in local
newspapers, including the St. Petersburg Times, as well as $ 188 for fliers and

 $ 2,200 for direct mailings, according to a finance report.

"I will do whatever it takes to get the facts out to the citizens the best  way
that I can," said Mayor Anita Protos.

Vatikiotis said the money is coming from the city's general fund. No city
services have been compromised to pay those bills, he said.

"I'm a very good manager," he said.

Much of the money has come from savings in personnel costs the city has had
over the past year.

While the amount of money the city spends is a matter of public record,  that's
not the case with the hospital. Joe Kiefer, Helen Ellis' administrator,  said
the hospital's legal bills parallel those of the city, although the  hospital's
advertising costs are higher. That's because the hospital is  advertising on
radio and television, as well as in newspapers, to encourage  voters to defeat
the referendum.

Kiefer said he doesn't know what the final bill will be when it is all  over.

Last week Kiefer reported that the hospital had spent $ 12,678 so far on
advertising, mostly on fees to the hospital's public relations firm, Ketchum
Public Relations of Pittsburgh. The spending report covers the time between
Sept. 14 and Oct. 27.

Those expenses were detailed in a campaign treasurer's report filed by the
hospital Friday in the city clerk's office. Municipalities aren't required to
file such reports.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; City Manager Costa Vatikiotis

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


                              386 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 29, 2014 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Improvements noted in St. Elizabeths patient care

BYLINE: Keith L. Alexander

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 396 words


Justice Department asks to end its court-ordered monitoring of hospital

The Justice Department said Thursday that St. Elizabeths Hospital has made
"significant improvements" in the care of its patients and asked a federal judge
to discontinue the agency's monitoring of the facility.

Officials filed the request in U.S. District Court, saying court-mandated
oversight of the District-operated psychiatric hospital is no longer needed. The
monitoring was put in place after the Justice Department in 2006 found that
numerous civil rights violations were made by the hospital regarding patient
treatment.

In 2007, Justice Department officials and the District entered into a court
settlement agreeing to implement sweeping reforms to the hospital's operations
to address the violations. In 2011, agency  officials issued another series of
reports in which they found continued patient violence and shortcomings in
training in patient care.

But in their latest review, Justice Department  officials cited progress at the
facility, saying it had increased the levels of clinical staff, lowered its
patient population by nearly 50 percent and revised its discharge and community
placement orders for those patients released. The hospital was also praised for
a new, modern facility on its campus.

"We commend the District and the Department of Behavioral Health for their
commitment to reform the clinical practices" at the hospital, Molly Moran,
acting assistant attorney general for civil rights, said in a statement. Moran
said hospital officials and the Department of Behavioral Health "have made
significant and often difficult decisions to change the clinical culture at St.
Elizabeths Hospital and ensure that persons confined to the hospital were
appropriately discharged and integrated into the community with adequate
supports."

The latest developments came following criticism of the hospital after three
patients had walked off the grounds without permission since February.

Even under the request for relief, the hospital's managers would be required to
hold quarterly meetings with the deputy general counsel for the Department of
Behavioral Health and University Legal Services, the District's nonprofit
community legal group.

University Legal Services will continue to monitor and meet with hospital
officials as well as conduct unannounced visits.

keith.alexander@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2014 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The Indiana Lawyer

                                October 13, 2010

Handling health care;
Hospital general counsel enjoys diverse workload.

LENGTH: 1044 words


Handling health care Hospital general counsel enjoys diverse workload.

After spending 12 years in the health-care field as an X-ray technician, an
in-house counsel for a hospital network in Indianapolis seems to be in the right
place.

Shelley Fraser has been at Community Health Network for almost two years after
hearing about the job from a neighbor of someone who worked in Community's legal
department. At that time, she'd been working for the firm now known as Taft
Stettinius & Hollister for about five years, where she practiced health-care
law.

Her main interest in going to law school was to practice something in the field
of health care, so she enjoyed that job where she had experience with
transactional and regulatory work in the health-care field.

But she was also excited for a new opportunity and ready for a change where she
could focus on just one client. She also saw potential of being able to spend
more time with her family - she was pregnant at the time - and spend less time
worrying about billable hours and business development. She added this doesn't
mean she has any less work - if anything she might have more work - but it's
also faster paced and more focused because she only has the one client.

Today, as assistant general counsel to Community Health Network, she splits her
time between an office at Community Hospital East and another office at
Visionary Enterprises Inc.

"VEI is essentially the innovative development arm of the network - it owns and
manages numerous ambulatory surgery centers, manages physician practices, and
owns and manages real estate in addition to many other business ventures," she
said.

Each of those offices also has a member of the legal department who is there
full time - Karen Ann Lloyd is at Community Hospital East, and Karen Turner is
at VEI. The three of them oversee the legal issues of the network that includes
11,000 employees around central Indiana. She also said the three attorneys work
well together, and she never feels isolated.

"It's more of a team environment," she said. "We don't collaborate on
everything, but we always support each other."

There are five hospitals, plus more than 90 sites of care, which have a wide
range of legal issues, she said.

In her role, she continues to work on transactional and regulatory compliance,
but she and other general counsels also address tax, employment, mental health
issues, and even criminal questions. She said the work is diverse and no two
days are ever alike.

While she doesn't often use her clinical background in her day-to-day work, she
said it does help her understand how a hospital works, including the importance
of focusing on the needs of patients.

She also said as a member of the riskmanagement team for the hospital network,
even though things have changed since she was in the field, when she works with
nurses she at least has an understanding of what they do because of her
background.

While it doesn't happen every day, from time to time she is able to affect
patients' lives directly - something she misses from her time as an X-ray
technician. This usually only happens when she receives a call from the
intensive care unit regarding a patient who is incapacitated and a decision
needs to be made about the patient's treatment, even if there's no clearly
defined person who can speak on behalf of the patient.

They're never easy choices to make, she said. She can tell the physician the
ethical or legal ways to handle the situation, but there isn't always a clear
answer one way or the other.

She has also learned about mentalhealth legal issues as the network has a number
of patients with these concerns. For instance, the legal aspects of the
commitment process, such as when someone can be constrained; what happens if the
person needs medication but cannot give consent and who can give that consent;
guardianship and power of attorney issues; the network's role in cases involving
child protective services and adult protective services; when mental-health
records can be released; what records can be released when it comes to alcohol
and substance abuse; duty to warn issues when it comes to issues like HIV
reporting; and what can or can't be shared in therapy sessions involving support
groups.

While most of the physicians and others in the network have seen a lot of these
firsthand and know many of the answers themselves, she said, "They already know
the easy answers. By the time the question gets to me, there's some kind of
twist to it that's unusual from what they usually see."

She said among the issues she's seen, some of the harder ones to address involve
forced medication and consent issues, including controversial procedures or even
when the issue of patient sterilization arises.

The hospital network has also worked with court programs. While those programs
run on their own, she said the legal department has reviewed some of the forms
to make them in compliance with what can and can't be disclosed to the court
regarding mental-health issues.

She added a number of people who work for the hospital have been there 20 or 30
years, and can also provide institutional knowledge when needed. Or when changes
need to take place - as they have under health-care reform over the past couple
years since Fraser started - others in the hospital can serve as a good
reference when it comes to what has or hasn't worked in the past.

"As the health-care industry is being revamped and redesigned, it's a great
opportunity to improve processes," she said. "Our goal is to have better patient
care and better access, and we're analyzing how to make those changes over the
next couple years."

Among those changes are how to make records more high tech and in compliance
with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, but because the
hospital network is already connected, one concern is if the requirements are
somehow different from what the network already does.

Fraser remains in touch with her mentor, Dave Bromund, a partner at Taft
Stettinius & Hollister.

"Shelley was an important member of our health and life sciences group," he said
via e-mail. "We were sorry to see her move on, but understood that she was
getting a great opportunity at Community. While she was here, she had
17IL/2010/10/13

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                         Copyright 2010 IBJ Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                           January 7, 2004 Wednesday

Hospital Pooh sticker down

BYLINE: DAVID POWLES

LENGTH: 346 words


BOSSES at Burton's Queen's Hospital today confirmed that they had removed an
image of Winnie The Pooh which could have landed them in a legal wrangle with
movie giant Disney.

The Belvedere Road hospital has taken down a sticker of the popular children's
cartoon character which adorned its pharmacy door after it was revealed that the
image might have breached Disney's copyright. Managers are also planning to
phase out boxes of medicines distributed to accident and emergency patients from
the store labelled with home-made pictures of the bear. Hospital bosses said
today that they had heard nothing from Disney and "did not expect to do so" but
had taken down the stickers as a precaution. Meanwhile, Disney confirmed that no
legal action would be taken. Hospital spokesman Deryck Wilson, said: "There has
been no contact from Disney over this and we do not expect to receive any. "The
sticker has been removed from the door where it was seen. Other material may
take longer to track down and remove, but it will eventually be phased out. "The
majority of schools, nurseries and hospitals throughout the country have, from
time to time, used cartoon images in this way. While this may technically be a
breach of copyright, we would be very surprised if action were ever taken.
"Nevertheless, we don't want to risk any offence. To avoid any trouble or
problems we will remove all of the relevant items."   Last week, Walt Disney UK
launched an investigation after it emerged that the hospital had been using the
picture of the fictional bear because the initials POOH stood for Pharmacy Out
Of Hours.  The multi-national company warned that Queen's could face legal
action because it had no formal agreement to use the images. However, a
spokeswoman for the firm said that while they had been made aware of the matter
"no legal action would take place". Ironically, Disney itself has until recently
been involved in legal action over Winnie The Pooh. Last year a judge in the US
barred the granddaughter of its author, AA Milne, from reclaiming the marketing
rights to the book.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2004 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 28, 1999 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Union may sue over hospital raid

BYLINE: PAUL CONROY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 350 words


A health union is planning legal action over a mock raid at St George's Hospital
in which two undercover security guards from a private security company shocked
nursing staff.

The secretary of the Health Services Union No.1 branch, Ms Pauline Fegan, said
union representatives would meet with lawyers on Monday to discuss their legal
strategy.

Legal action is likely to be taken against the hospital and not the security
firm involved in the incident, City Watch Security.

Hospital staff have also sought a formal apology from management, and an
assurance that there would be no further security exercises.

Ms Fegan said employers had a legal responsibility to ensure a safe working
environment. "Having security guards coming in on a mock raid without their
knowledge is certainly not meeting those standards. They owe their employees a
duty of care," she said.

Staff at the hospital have been offered counselling after the guards entered the
building last Sunday morning and allegedly interrogated seven frightened nurses.
The guards, dressed in plain clothes and not wearing identification tags, ran
around the wards. Union organisers said the men initially refused to identify
themselves to the nurses.

Industrial organisers are also confused about claims by hospital management that
a memo was issued to senior staff notifying them of a general security review.

"We know nothing about any memo or anything like it," Ms Fegan said.

The hospital's chief executive officer, Ms Christine Edwards, said this week
that the mock raid was carried out without her knowledge or that of hospital
supervisors.

In a media release by the public relations firm IPR Shandwick, City Watch
Security said it was in a "strong position contractually" with St George's
Hospital over the incident.

It said the company would make a formal response as soon as the facts concerning
a security audit at the hospital had been clarified with hospital management.

A meeting has already taken place between hospital management and
representatives of City Watch Security. The firm has since declined to formally
comment about the incident.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 18, 1994, Sunday, City Edition

Rape lawsuits face complex test

BYLINE: JIM ROSS

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

DATELINE: INVERNESS



As they gear up for a second round in the legal arena, women suing Citrus
Memorial Hospital and its infamous former employee, Bruce Alan Young, will be
forced to change their strategy and procedures.

Why? Because proceeding in a medical malpractice action is significantly
different than pursuing a general negligence claim, as the women originally
wanted to do, legal experts say.

Money is one difference. Because so many medical experts and studies are
necessary to handle a medical malpractice claim, trying such a case costs at
least $ 25,000, according to Tampa lawyer Fritz Gray, who handles medical
malpractice cases and is certified as an expert in civil trial law.

Negligence cases typically are less pricey. "They (the malpractice cases)  are
too expensive to take frivolous ones," Gray said.

Time is another problem. With few exceptions, the statute of limitations  runs
out two years after the alleged abuse occurred. And for the claims that  are
timely, a complicated legal process is required before plaintiffs can file
suit.

No such barriers exist in the negligence realm. The statute of limitations  is
four years and suits can be - and in this case were - filed without warning  or
waiting.

As for the legal issues at hand, a lot will be the same. The women still  say
Young raped them while they recovered from surgery, and they still say  Citrus
Memorial is liable for that and for its own negligence in hiring,  retaining and
supervising Young.

The legal challenges, and the hospital's defenses, will be similar to those  in
a negligence action.

And the issue that everyone is interested in - money judgments against the
hospital - has some twists as well.

If the cases proceed to trial and a jury finds the hospital liable in some
fashion, there would be no cap on damages for pain and suffering, Gray said.  If
the hospital admitted liability - something health care providers rarely do  in
such cases - damages for pain and suffering would be limited to $ 350,000 in  a
medical malpractice case, state law shows.

Police arrested Young, a 45-year-old Inverness man, Oct. 3 after a fellow  nurse
found him atop a 15-year-old girl who was recovering from surgery. The  nurse
told police that it appeared Young was forcing sexual intercourse on the  girl.

Since then, five lawsuits against the nurse and his former employer have  been
filed. A judge dismissed three of the suits earlier this month, saying  they
must be filed under the strict rules that govern medical malpractice  actions.

Many other women have accused Young of raping them, and more lawsuits are
expected.

To get the legal ball rolling, plaintiffs must find a medical expert to  report
that the woman was the victim of medical malpractice. After that, the
plaintiffs must notify the hospital that they are considering filing suit.

The hospital then has 90 days to investigate and make a settlement offer.  The
parties will engage in an informal "discovery" process.

"You have to put your cards on the table and show what you have," said  James T.
Ferrara, a Boca Raton lawyer.

If nothing is resolved, then the plaintiffs may file suit.

If the cases make it to trial, the plaintiffs must prove that Young raped  them.
That could be difficult, considering that all the patients were sedated  and
recovering from surgery at the time of alleged  molestation; however, it  will
be easier than it would be in the criminal arena, where the charge must  be
proved beyond a reasonable doubt.

As in the criminal cases, evidence of Young's behavior in other attacks  might
be allowed to help prove that he was guilty in the case at hand.

Next, the women will attack the hospital on four basic grounds: vicarious
liability, negligent hiring, negligent retention and negligent supervision.

"All they need is one," Gray said.

Under the first point, the plaintiffs will try to show that the hospital is
vicariously liable for its employee's alleged acts. The hospital doesn't have
to be actively negligent; it simply must suffer for deeds its agent carried  out
while in the scope of his duties.

The hospital's defense - and there's plenty of legal precedent to back it  up -
will be that Young stopped being a nurse and started acting on his own  when he
allegedly attacked his patients.

"They've got a real good argument on that. It's a tough one. I wouldn't  rule it
out," Gray said.

Helping the women will be the legal precedent set in 1988, when the 2nd
District Court of Appeal found that a jury should decide when a person's
official capacity ends and when the person starts acting on his own.

In that case, a boy who was sexually molested by a Boy Scout leader sued  the
organization.

If the vicarious-liability theory doesn't prevail, the women can argue that  the
hospital was negligent by improperly hiring Young, retaining him and not
adequately supervising him.

That's when the women can talk about Young's sexual affair with a high  school
student when he was a teacher; Citrus Memorial's failure to check  Young's
record with the Department of Education before hiring him; and sexual  abuse
allegations that surfaced against him and were dismissed by the hospital  in
August, allowing Young to allegedly continue to attack more patients.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Bruce Alan Young

                            Times Publishing Company


                              391 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 28, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

HSE advised to stall in life support row;
Hospital wanted to turn off machine

BYLINE: Justine McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 608 words


AN HSE-run hospital outside Dublin had been prepared to switch off life support
almost three weeks ago for a braindead pregnant woman. The plan was abandoned
after the HSE received legal advice that support should continue because of
constitutional obligations to the foetus.

Yesterday morning, 28 days after the mother-of-two suffered a catastrophic brain
trauma in her local hospital, her life support was finally withdrawn.

This followed a ruling by three judges of the High Court, who considered the
mother's deteriorating condition, the unlikely survival of the foetus and the
"unimaginable distress" caused to her family by "a futile exercise".

The woman was declared clinically dead at a voluntary hospital in Dublin, at
5.20pm on December 3. After her body was transferred back to her local hospital
by ambulance on December 8, authorities there wanted to terminate the somatic
support keeping her then 16-week-old foetus alive.

The woman's widowed father had asked that life support be withdrawn, but doctors
in her local hospital feared they would be at risk of prosecution for failing to
vindicate the unborn's constitutional right to life, as enshrined in article
40.3.3 of Bunreacht na hEireann.

Local hospital clinicians were alarmed because their colleagues at the Dublin
hospital had already received legal advice that the constitution required the
continuation of somatic measures. At that point, the HSE obtained a legal
opinion.

The consultant neurosurgeon who treated the woman in Dublin told the High Court
last Tuesday that he had requested advice from the hospital's legal-risk
department on the morning of December 1, but never received an opinion in
writing. He said he and two other clinicians had tried "to figure out the eighth
amendment" to the constitution. Under the Protection of Life During Pregnancy
Act, passed by the Oireachtas last year, women and their doctors are liable to
14 years' imprisonment on conviction of procuring an illegal abortion. Leo
Varadkar, the health minister, was informed that in a similar case in Waterford
in 2001, the then attorney general Michael McDowell advised that life support
could be switched off. In a Dail speech on December 17, after being told about
the case, Varadkar said: "Speaking today as minister for health, and also as a
medical doctor, and knowing all that I do now, it is my considered view that the
eighth amendment is too restrictive." The legal advice to the HSE did not
include reference to the 2001 case or the Heidelberg study, both of which were
raised in last week's three-day Continued on page 2

Life support case delayed

Continued from page 1 court hearing. The study, spanning 30 years, noted seven
international cases involving a foetus at gestation of 17 weeks or less. Of
those, two unborns survived but one of them died 30 days after delivery.

As doctors considered the implications of article 40.3.3, one proposal was that,
to allow the young mother to die naturally and with dignity, her body be
transferred to Northern Ireland, where the Irish constitution does not apply.
The suggestion was that her life support could be terminated in Northern Ireland
and she could be returned to the republic for burial. That proposal was not
pursued.

Yesterday, a Labour senator said the need to repeal article 40.3.3 is too urgent
to wait until after the next general election. "This case was not a scenario
anyone had anticipated," said Ivana Bacik. "This was a specific case involving a
15-week gestation and the judgment is specifically within that context. What
would happen if another case arose where gestation is more advanced?" Comment,
Justine McCarthy, page 12

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            January 27, 2015 Tuesday

Medical tussle: Abuse victim fighting for life

LENGTH: 198  words


A woman assaulted by her husband early on Monday has failed to obtain a medico-
legal certificate from three government hospitals despite the passage of three
days since the incident.

Sarfaraz, a resident of Thathi Raju, had attacked Aziz Bibi, his wife, with an
axe on Monday. Bibi was taken to Sahiwal THQ Hospital after police had
registered a case. Aziz Bibi's brother said no staff was present at the
hospital. He said she had been taken to Sargodha DHQ Hospital later. Bibi's
brother said she had been taken to Allied Hospital after being treated at the
hospital. He said doctors from Allied Hospital had said that her condition was
critical. Bibi's brother said no medico-legal certificate had been issued by the
hospitals. Sahiwal THQ Hospital MS Qazi Amanullah said the certificate should
have been issued at the Sargodha DHQ Hospital. Sargodha DHQ Hospital In-charge
Naeem Sheikh said the certificate should have been issued at the Sahiwal THQ
Hospital. Sahiwal Investigation SI Amanullah said it was peculiar that the
hospitals were not facilitating the investigation. He said the victim was paying
the price for their negligence.

Published in The Express Tribune, January 28th, 2015.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 993 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2015 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                            GlobalData - Investments

                               December 18, 2015

                         The Children's Mercy Hospital

                               2401 Gillham Road
                               Kansas City 64108
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * INVESTMENTS * * * * * * * * * *


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2019 For US$1.15 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2019, for gross proceeds of
$1.15 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2019.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2019 For US$1.83 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2019, for gross proceeds of
$1.83 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 4.625% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2019.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2018 For US$2.88 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2018, for gross proceeds of
$2.88 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 4.625% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2018.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2017 For US$2.74 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2017, for gross proceeds of
$2.74 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2017.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2016 For US$2.64 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2016, for gross proceeds of
$2.64 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 4% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2016.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2015 For US$2.52 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2015, for gross proceeds of
$2.52 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2015.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2014 For US$2.44 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2014, for gross proceeds of
$2.44 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 3.5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2014.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2013 For US$2.38 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2013, for gross proceeds of
$2.38 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 3% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2013.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2012 For US$2.3 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2012, for gross proceeds of $2.3
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 3% payable on May 15 and November 15
every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part of $181.49
million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri Health
Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2012.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2011 For US$2.27 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2011, for gross proceeds of
$2.27 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 2% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2011.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Term Bonds
Due 2039 For US$83 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 term bonds due 2039, for gross proceeds of $83.49
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5.625% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2039.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Term Bonds
Due 2033 For US$24 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 term bonds due 2033, for gross proceeds of $23.61
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5.5% payable on May 15 and November
15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part of
$181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri Health
Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2033.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Term Bonds
Due 2029 For US$32 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 term bonds due 2029, for gross proceeds of $31.76
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5.25% payable on May 15 and November
15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part of
$181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri Health
Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2029.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2024 For US$6.18 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2024, for gross proceeds of
$6.18 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5.125% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2024.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2023 For US$3.57 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2023, for gross proceeds of
$3.57 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2023.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2022 For US$3.4 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2022, for gross proceeds of $3.4
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and November 15
every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part of $181.49
million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri Health
Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2022.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2021 For US$3.26 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2021, for gross proceeds of
$3.26 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 4.75% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2021.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2020 For US$3.11 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2020, for gross proceeds of
$3.11 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2020.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Company Investment Analysis             Company Overview
Events                                  Investments
Key Employees                           Key Facts
Locations and Subsidiaries              Major Products and Services
Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015


                              394 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Judge dismisses legal challenges to new Sutter hospital

BYLINE: Guy Kovner, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 529 words


June 14--A Sonoma County judge has rejected many of the legal objections to the
Board of Supervisors' approval last year of a new Sutter Medical Center north of
Santa Rosa.

Judge Rene Chouteau faulted the county's approval of the $284 million hospital
complex on two limited issues, but rejected other complaints raised in the
lawsuit filed in September by hospitals in Healdsburg and Sebastopol and an
environmental group.

He ruled the Healdsburg District and Palm Drive hospital boards had no standing
to challenge the Sutter project.

"They are competitors of Sutter hospital acting for economic and competitive
purposes," Chouteau said in a 12-page decision.

In their lawsuit, the Healdsburg and Sebastopol hospitals -- joined by a nurses
union and Transportation Solutions Defense and Education Fund, a Bay Area
nonprofit -- alleged that an environmental analysis of the Sutter project was
"flawed and fragmented" and should be set aside.

Mike Purvis, chief administrative officer of Sutter Medical Center, said the
judge's decision primarily held that the environmental analysis was "on target."

The decision allowed construction of the 82-bed hospital to continue on a
25-acre site next to the Wells Fargo Center, off Highway 101 at Mark West
Springs Road.

"What we're excited about is moving forward with construction," Purvis said,
noting that site work is three weeks ahead of schedule.

The new hospital, scheduled to open in October 2014, will replace the Sutter
Medical Center on Chanate Road.

David Schonbrunn, president of the Transportation Solutions group, said he was
disappointed by the judge's decision that objections to the new hospital's
location were not raised in a timely manner.

"That was our whole interest," Schonbrunn said. "They are planting this hospital
in the middle of nowhere."

Evan Rayner, chief executive of the North Sonoma County Health Care District,
which oversees Healdsburg District Hospital, could not be reached for comment
Monday.

Chouteau's decision was filed Thursday and received by Sutter attorneys on
Monday.

The judge required the Board of Supervisors to take two steps:

-- Reconsider the "mitigation measures" for greenhouse gas emissions related to
the new hospital, and;

-- Clarify ownership of an 80,000-square-foot medical office building next to
the hospital. The county General Plan designation for the hospital site requires
that the building is owned by a government or nonprofit agency or public
utility, the judge said.

Purvis described these issues as "technical areas" that the county must address,
with assistance from Sutter.

Chouteau rejected four claims made by the plaintiffs, including assertions that
the environmental analysis failed to consider "an adequate range of
alteratives," including a "no-project alternative" and a "city centered transit
oriented alternative."

To see more of The Press Democrat, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.pressdemocrat.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Press Democrat, Santa
Rosa, Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110614-UR-Judge-dismisses-legal-challenges-to-new-Sutter-hospital
-0614-20110614

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2011


                              395 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday

Legal fight for hospital ends in heartbreak

SECTION: SWINDON NEWS (SWINDON NEWS)

LENGTH: 812 words


AFTER an epic and costly legal battle, a top judge yesterday broke Wiltshire
residents' hearts when he refused to order the re-opening of a much-loved
community hospital.

Local people turned up in droves to support the campaign to save Savernake
Hospital, near Marlborough, spearheaded by retired physiotherapy assistant, Val
Compton.

In a case which will have cost the Wiltshire Primary Care Trust a six-figure sum
in legal costs, Mrs Compton mounted a wide-ranging attack on its decision to
shut the hospital's Minor Injuries Unit and, she claimed, to close its Day
Hospital by stealth.

Mr Justice Cranston accepted that the PCT was guilty of an error of judgement
when it appointed a company called Red Bridge Solutions Ltd to analyse responses
during a public consultation exercise prior to the closure decision.

That was because one of the company's directors, Stephen Tanner, was the partner
of Jane Britton, who was at the time associate director of patient and public
involvement at the Avon, Gloucestershire and Wiltshire Strategic Health
Authority.

But the judge rejected Mrs Compton's plea that the relationship between Mr
Tanner and Ms Britton gave rise to an appearance of bias.

He said Red Bridge was selected after a rigorous tendering process and the
company accurately recorded the views of those opposed to the hospital closure.
In any event, the judge added, the Strategic Health Authority's role was to
advise the PCT on procedural requirements, not on decision-making.

The PCT disputed claims it had closed the Day Hospital.

But Mrs Compton pointed out that refurbished consulting rooms were largely
empty.

On that issue, the judge said: "Mrs Compton's evidence persuaded me the Day
Hospital as a suite of rooms at the Savernake site has been, in substance,
closed."

But, observing that the PCT had put in place a network of "neighbourhood teams"
providing medical services in the community, the judge said: "If the Day
Hospital is regarded as a collection of health services, it is alive and well."

Mrs Compton argued the PCT's clinical grounds for closing the hospital do not
stand scrutiny and that the real reason behind the move was a financial one
which, she claimed, was based on flawed assumptions that running down Savernake
would save money.

Despite Mrs Compton's plea that reinstatement of the facilities at Savernake
would produce savings, the PCT insisted that its new arrangements, including
neighbourhood teams, were working well for patients.

Dismissing Mrs Compton's challenge, the judge ruled: "Given the financial
arguments the PCT now adduces, it is impossible for me to conclude that the
PCT's financial case was flawed on public law grounds."

Mr Justice Cranston said he was impressed by Mrs Compton's supporters who
attended court. He said: "It must have been especially galling when, shortly
after the facilities at Savernake Hospital had been refurbished, the decisions
regarding the Day Hospital and Minor Injuries Unit were taken.

"I have expressed my view that the decision to engage Red Bridge constituted an
error of judgment.

"But in legal terms, the challenge that the decisions were flawed for apparent
bias because of Red Bridge's involvement cannot succeed.

"I have concluded that the PCT's decisions in respect of both the Day Hospital
and the Minor Injuries Unit at Savernake Hospital were properly made."

After the ruling, PCT barrister Fenella Morris said the litigation was quite
phenomenally costly and asked for Mrs Compton, whose case was backed by the
pressure group Community Action for Savernake Hospital, to pay a £20,000 legal
costs bill.

Mr Justice Cranston said it was right that she and her supporters should make a
contribution and fixed her bill at £10,000.

Jeff James, the chief executive of NHS Wiltshire, said he was pleased with the
outcome of the judicial review.

He said: "We took care to ensure that our decisions were reasonable and that the
decision-making process was fair.

"It is very good to see that the judgement clearly confirms that our approach
was fair.

"We were concerned to create a pattern of services that brought more care to
patients at home and gave people in Wiltshire a sustainable range of services to
respond to their needs for urgent care.

"We knew that this would involve change and some existing services would cease
and others would be modified.

"We appreciated that in some communities there would be concern because services
that people were familiar with would be replaced with new services.

"The evidence shows that our community services are working well.

"Our Neighbourhood Teams, providing care at home, have received overwhelming
support from patients and carers.

"Similarly, the re-organisation of minor injury services has been achieved with
no adverse impact on patients, GPs or local A&E services."

Mr James said the decision ended a period of uncertainty for staff and the
community.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 13, 1996, Wednesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

TGH search doomed by bad advice

BYLINE: MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The aborted search for a new Tampa General Hospital president was doomed by  bad
legal advice and an out-of-state consultant who compounded problems by  taking
drastic steps to keep secret the identities of candidates.

Dallas-based consultant Ed French returned resumes and form letters to  rejected
candidates to avoid compliance with a state law the hospital's  attorney could
not clearly explain to him, according to a memo obtained  Tuesday.

French said Monday in a deposition that he was unfamiliar with Florida's  public
records laws and relied on legal advice from hospital attorney Mike  Brown, of
the Tampa law firm of Allen, Dell, Frank & Trinkle.

"Brown said it was fine, then Brown said it's not fine," said board  chairwoman
Phyllis Busansky, who tried unsuccessfully to fire Brown and his  firm Monday.
"I think there are major problems with our attorneys, and he  just didn't
realize it."

Brown did not return calls Tuesday.

French wrote to rejected candidates: "We have been advised that a local,
Tampa-area newspaper, is contemplating a request for disclosure of all
candidates for the Tampa job. The TGH general counsel has previously advised
that he believes our process is exempt from disclosure but cannot be certain
because of the public records laws in Florida, so I want to be sure that your
candidacy is NOT disclosed without your specific approval. For that reason I  am
returning your resume at this time."

He added a postscript.

"P.S. My apologies for not sending a personalized response, but I'm most
concerned at this time with not having resumes in my office that may be  subject
to disclosure to anyone's disadvantage and time is of the essence in  that
regard."

French said he promised confidentiality to applicants. However, the Jan. 8
recruitment advertisement in Modern Healthcare magazine does not say the names
will be kept secret.

Hospital President Fred Karl said Tuesday he was aware the letter was being
sent, and stopped short of giving legal advice to French, but did tender a
warning: "I said, "You had better be damn sure you're right.' "

Karl, a lawyer, said the responsibility for legal guidance was with Brown,  yet
he made other attempts to keep the search legal. He warned board members  in a
Jan. 29 meeting to beware of crossing a fine legal line.

"You should not delegate to anybody the authority to actually check off or  to
negate any candidate that comes in. . . . If you do that you open  yourselves to
the Sunshine Law," Karl said.

But the board failed to adopt his suggestion, and Brown failed to pass the
information to French.

The first search was stopped Monday after Brown told the board in a  closed-door
session that his faulty legal advice violated the state's  Government in the
Sunshine laws. The Times sued the hospital and French's  company to make the
records public.

In fact, there were three violations:

French violated the open meetings law when he rejected candidates for the  top
job. He merely had the authority under the law to rank candidates.

The screening committee also violated the state open-meeting law when it
reviewed 16 applications and rejected 11. The screening committee, which
included French, Dr. Fred Reddy and Dr. Charles Mahan, dean of the University
of South Florida College of Public Health, also was limited in its authority  to
merely rank candidates.

French violated the state's public records law by failing to maintain  copies of
job applications. Under the law, he was the hospital board's  delegated
custodian of records and was required to keep accurate files for  public review.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              397 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                          December 4, 1991, Wednesday

Suit: Children illegally held in institutions; Action seeks alternatives to
state mental hospitals

BYLINE: By Rebecca Perl STAFF WRITERhospitals; children; mental; care;
facilities

SECTION: STATE NEWS; SECTION B; PAGE 01

LENGTH: 941 words


Hundreds of children - some as young as 5 - who are not mentally ill are being
held illegally in state mental institutions for months, and in some cases even a
year, contends a class-action suit filed Tuesday in U.S. District Court in
Macon.

Children with emotional problems are languishing in locked wards in psychiatric
hospitals on the improper grounds that there is nowhere else to put them,
alleges the suit, filed by attorneys at Georgia Legal Services Program, a
federally funded group that represents people who can't afford a lawyer.

The suit charges that state officials at the Department of Human Resources (DHR)
are violating court agreements they made in 1984 and 1985 to discharge children
who are not mentally ill to community care. They want to change parts of the
agreement because its intent - to get children out of the hospital - has been
thwarted by holding children until scarce community placement can be secured.

"It has been over seven years since the court entered its first judgment and
still many children are being improperly and inappropriately hospitalized and
confined," the suit states.

While the suit takes the DHR to task for warehousing children who are mentally
ill but could be cared for in a less restrictive environment or won't benefit
from further treatment, it focuses primarily on holding those who are not
mentally ill.

These are children who have behavioral or emotional problems. Most have been
abused. Many are difficult. They may set fires, act violently, be hyperactive,
have trouble learning or be defiant.

Xenia Wiggins, a spokeswoman for the state Division of Mental Health, said DHR
officials could not comment on pending litigation but that officials recognize
the need for community treatment.

The suit calls for alternatives to hospitalization for children with severe
behavioral and emotional problems - therapeutic foster care, after- school
treatment centers and in-home crisis services - all virtually non- existent in
Georgia.

Legal services lawyers are asking the court to appoint a special master - in
this case a mental health expert - to try to solve the problem, handle
bureaucratic tangles, and implement what the court decides. Most of the children
are wards of the state who wind up in mental institutions as a result of
physical and sexual abuse, abandonment, truancy, fighting, stealing and running
away from home.

The suit cites five unnamed juveniles being confined in state mental
institutions, including:

An 8-year-old girl from Douglas County with an attention deficit who was
hyperactive and abused by her mother and who has been kept at Atlanta's Georgia
Mental Health Institute (GMHI) since April. Though the child's psychiatrist at
the hospital said she is not mentally ill, she remains hospitalized because of
the difficulty of finding both funding and proper community placement.

A 9-year-old Fulton County boy who was abandoned by his parents and has a
history of physical and sexual abuse was diagnosed with adjustment, conduct and
emotional disorders. Though he was described by the doctor that treated him at
GMHI as a "model patient" and not mentally ill, he was recommended for further
hospitalization and kept for three months - until placement became available.

A 16-year-old East Point girl with mild mental retardation who was kept in
Georgia Regional Hospital in Atlanta for a year and three months though her
doctor at the hospital said she is not mentally ill. During her stay, hospital
staff members said they worried about the teenager, who had been sexually abused
at home, because she lived among sexual offenders at the hospital.; Kids are not
mentally ill'

"Generally these kids are not mentally ill," said Torin Togut, the lawyer for
the lawsuit. "It's like bringing a kid with a cold to a hospital ward for the
dying and leaving him there way after he's recovered from the cold.

"The spirit of the agreement was not to dump kids in hospitals and treat them
there for long periods of time."

Not only are Georgia's mental hospitals not equipped to handle the special needs
of children with emotional problems, none provides long- term residential
treatment for children. Hospitals are meant to provide acute treatment -
typically a month or less of intensive treatment - for children under 13.

Nearly 2,000 children were treated last year in state mental hospitals, and
legal services lawyers contend that hundreds of those would be better-served in
scarce community programs. An estimated 18,000 children statewide need state
mental health services of some kind.; Hospital stays costly

The state has a program in Augusta that legal services lawyers say fits the
needs of children. It includes respite care, which gives parents a break;
in-home crisis care; and day treatment. A similar program that was started in
DeKalb County was never finished due to budget cuts.

There are also state foster homes in Clayton County and Valdosta and some
outpatient counseling at community mental health centers. Other than that, most
communities in Georgia have no publicly financed alternatives to
institutionalization. This despite the fact that advocates say treating a child
with in-home crisis services costs about $ 2,000, compared with $ 39,000 to
treat a child in a mental hospital.

And though DHR officials have asked for funding for more community services in
recent years, neither the governor nor the Legislature has been willing to
comply in these lean times.

As a result, in 1989 only Wyoming and Tennessee hospitalized more children than
Georgia.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


                              398 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                     The Chronicle (Toowoomba, Queensland)

                           October 27, 2012 Saturday

INBRieF

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 203  words

Free law service

A FREE family law legal advice service will operate for people appearing before
the visiting Federal Magistrates Court in Toowoomba on Thursday.

Run by Legal Aid Queensland, the Family Court duty solicitor service will be
available from 9am at the Toowoomba Courthouse in Hume St.

Duty lawyers provide free legal information and advice for mainly
self-represented people and help fill out forms and documents required for the
court appearance that day.

All Queenslanders can get free legal information and advice from Legal Aid
Queensland by calling 1300 65 11 88 (local call cost).

Hospital auction

FOLLOWING the success of hospital goods auctions last year and earlier this
year, the Toowoomba Hospital Foundation is set to conduct another major auction
at Toowoomba Hospital today.

More than 350 lots are on offer, with chairs, tables, dexion shelves, beds,
cupboards, bedside lockers, stainless steel and many more items all to go under
the hammer. Even an old tractor and trailer will go out in the auction.

Inspection of the auction items starts at 8am with the auction timed to start at
9am. Entrance to the auction site is via the Toowoomba Hospital main entrance in
Pechey St and then follow the signs.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TCH


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                              May 29, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

Legal charity reaches out to families with ailing children;
Pro Bono Law Ontario expands its front-line assistance program to include
McMaster Children's Hospital

BYLINE: Joanna Frketich The Hamilton Spectator

SECTION: LOCAL / NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 500 words


Your child is sick at McMaster Children's Hospital, your landlord is threatening
eviction and your boss warns you'll be fired if you take any more time off work.

Families can now get free legal help for the stressors that go hand- in-hand
with having an ill or disabled child from access-to-justice charity Pro Bono Law
Ontario, which already runs similar programs in Ontario's other children's
hospitals.

"Families who have kids who are sick in hospital tend to be really - and rightly
so - focused on their child and a lot of times other parts of their lives tend
to go sideways a bit," said Hamilton Health Sciences CEO Rob MacIsaac. "Having a
lawyer here offering free legal advice is a really helpful supplement to help
families get through these really difficult times."

More than 30 families have already used the service, announced Thursday at the
hospital on Main Street West.

"I'm seeing a lot of housing issues, whether landlords evicting or
discrimination or just apartments that aren't up to par," said Hilary Mack, the
PBLO lawyer who works with patient families.

"I'm seeing employers not being supportive of time off required by parents when
(they are) having to be at the hospital so much. Immigration issues are starting
to come up a lot ... and education with kids needing to be supported properly
when they're at school."

Mack has been at Chedoke or McMaster twice a week since November to assess the
severity of a family's issue, provide advice and train clinicians on how to spot
families with legal issues.

"There's a huge need," she said. "When you think about the families that are
here, they are already dealing with a huge stressor ... When you add they are a
low- to middle-income family ... they've got financial stressors built in. If
you add legal stressors to that, it becomes almost intolerable."

Families who need help are referred to the Hamilton Legal Clinic and local firms
Gowling Lafleur Henderson and Ross and McBride.

"Rarely do we get a chance to reach out into the broader community and help in
situations where people have trouble with accessing lawyers," said Mark
Abradjian, chair of Ross and McBride. "This was a situation ... where we thought
we could do some of the things in the community that a lot of our lawyers went
into law to do."

The program is designed to aid patients and their families deal with everything
from denial of disability benefits to marriage breakdown to immigration hurdles.

"We try to take our services to where people are in need," said Lynn Burns,
executive director of Pro Bono Law Ontario. "What we've been doing is embedding
ourselves in front-line service environments like courthouses, hospitals and
schools."

PBLO has long wanted to add McMaster, but did not have the funding until it got
a $50,000 grant from the Atkinson Foundation.

It hopes to keep the program running with donations after the funding runs out.

jfrketich@thespec.com

905-526-3349 | @Jfrketich

How you

can help

Help keep the program running

by donating to www.pblo.org

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            March 23, 2017 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mum's anger over legal fight for settlement after son's hospital death

BYLINE: ROD MINCHIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 648 words


THE mother of a young boy who died at a scandal-hit children's ward has spoken
of her anger at hospital bosses for what she described as an 18-month legal
battle.

Faye Valentine, 32, from Cardiff, criticised University Hospitals Bristol NHS
Foundation Trust for insensitivity and putting the family through extra stress.

Her son Luke Jenkins died in 2012 aged seven after undergoing surgery at Bristol
Children's Hospital to correct a congenital heart defect.

About 10 families are believed to be taking legal action against the trust,
including seven whose children died following treatment on Ward 32.

Last year, a damning Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman report branded
Luke's post-operative care and treatment at the hospital as a "service failure".

The conclusions went further than the Bristol Review carried out by NHS England
into cardiac services at the hospital.

Ms Valentine and her partner Stephen Jenkins, 35, from St Mellons, launched
legal action against the trust and a settlement was agreed at the High Court in
London yesterday.

The mother-of-four said the family's solicitor had made an offer to settle out
of court for £100,000 18 months ago, which the trust declined.

"About five weeks ago they offered us £3,000 to settle the case. We said no,
we're going to court," she said.

"We didn't realise that in the meantime this offer stays on the table and two
weeks later they said they would accept this.

"In the meantime, we had written our statements for the High Court and they
pulled out a week before they were due to be submitted.

"They made us go through all of that and then pulled out and said they were
settling the case and didn't want to take it any further."

Ms Valentine said they had no choice but to settle out of court as otherwise
they faced a large legal bill had they continued. They will use the settlement
to set up a trust fund for their other children.

"They are not making an admission of liability and accepting they caused
anything," she said.

"Ultimately, it has been about Luke but lately it has turned into a legal battle
and everything seems to be forgetting the real reason behind it - what happened
to Luke.

"We've had to fight for five years for the truth. We wanted that day in court
but unfortunately it is out of our hands now. It has come as a shock because we
were not expecting it at all. They have put us through an extra 18 months of
stress making us relive it.

"We've lost Luke and had to go through five years of a battle for them to just
turn around and settle. It's just so insensitive.

"We have never done this for the money. Ultimately it will be for the children's
future.

"How can you put a price on what happened? It will never end for us and we will
never forget what happened to Luke."

Trust chief executive Robert Woolley said: "The care Luke received has been
subject to several independent, expert reviews - by the Avon Coroner, the
Independent Review of Children's Cardiac Services in Bristol and the
Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman - none of which showed that we caused
his death.

"We fully accept, however, that there were failings in the care and treatment we
gave him and we also accept that, after his death, we compounded the pain and
grief of his family by giving incorrect and incomplete information in response
to their complaint. "We are deeply sorry for everything we got wrong and we have
apologised to Luke's parents for letting them down so badly.

"This settlement agreement recognises the benefit of avoiding further distress
to Luke's family. We developed a comprehensive action plan to address the
failings identified by the ombudsman and we have shared this with Luke's family,
together with evidence of its implementation. "Our progress in delivering the
recommendations of the Independent Review of Children's Cardiac Services in
Bristol is reported in the public meetings of the trust board."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Luke's parents Steve Jenkins and Faye ValentineLuke Jenkins died in
2012 after surgery for a heart defect

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2017 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Kuwait:Al Sayer orders investigation into illegal use of medical devices

LENGTH: 375  words

DATELINE: KUWAIT


KUWAIT, Nov. 12 -- Minister of Health Dr. Hilal Al Sayer has reportedly ordered
an investigation in regards to the illegal use of five expensive devices by a
consultant in one of the leading hospitals in the country.A leading public
hospital has discovered that the five devices, which were imported for only
Kuwaiti patients, went missing. However, facts were recently revealed when a
consultant aid stated that he inserted the devices within the bodies of Kuwaiti
patients in a private hospital.A source confirmed that a senior official has
opened an investigation on the number of devices used by doctors and who
received them from the stores and who ordered the use of these devices. The
source has stated that the senior official have opened the investigation because
a head of a department reported the incident to the Director of the Health Zone
instead of reporting it to his line manager, who happened to be the same senior
official.The source said that the consultant has been illegally using the
devices for three months, therefore the legal department considered this case as
an abuse of the public funds, because he received the devices form the public
hospitals and inserted them into the bodies of patients in a private hospital.

The legal department considered such an act as a serious violation, which could
result in the deterioration of the health of other patients who desperately need
such devices.The source said that the senior official threatened the consultants
with a report of their violations to Minister Al Sayer if they continued
providing the ministry''s legal department with details about the case. He added
that the senior officials wanted to protect the consultant.The source added that
Al Sayer has formed an investigation committee including Director of Health
Zone, Director of the hospital and the Head of Legal Department to be under his
direct supervision. The minister asked the members of the committee to end the
investigation as soon as possible and hold the violator accountable before the
details of the case are leaked to the lawmakers. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Claims for negligence up to R3bn

BYLINE: Zwanga Mukhuthu

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 644 words


EC health department faces rocketing litigation
 By
  Crime Reporter
 MEDICAL negligence claims lodged by patients against the Eastern Cape
department of health rocketed from R166-million in 2009 to R3.8-billion last
year.
 And the R173-million in claims for the first three months of the current
financial year following procedures at just one hospital, Dora Nginza Hospital
in Kwazakele, Port Elizabeth, already outstrips the full year's claims in 2009.


 The total claims bill for first quarter of 2015-16 totals R700-million.
 The province's struggle to address spiraling legal claims was highlighted by
the health department's senior legal services adviser, Mlungisi Mlambo, during a
presentation to medical and legal professionals in East London at the weekend.
 Health superintendent-general Dr Thobile Mbengashe said the rise in litigation
against the department could be attributed to the Road Accident Fund tightening
the screws on runaway litigation.
  "The (claims) trend is moving towards our department because lawyers can no
longer easily sue the RAF," Mbengashe said.
 The department is in the final stage of appointing a provincial health
ombudsman, who it hopes will help to mitigate and address complaints.
 The medico-legal dialogue at the International Convention Centre on Saturday
was attended by 120 people including hospital chief executives, district health
managers, legal representatives of the department, and state attorneys.
 It was aimed at finding ways of addressing and preventing massive litigation
against the department.
 In the first quarter of the 2015-16 financial year, the department received
claims in nine of its provincial hospitals including:
 lDora Nginza Hospital, which is being sued for R173062500;
 lMthatha General Hospital - R117800000;
 lNelson Mandela Academic Hospital - R59896250;
  lCecilia Makiwane Hospital - R30389001;
 lFrere - R9210000;
 lAll Saints - R12803200;
 lLivingstone - R2701000;
  lButterworth - R1262500; and
 lHoly Cross Hospital - R450000.

 Mlambo said Dora Nginza was a tertiary institution that dealt with referral
cases from surrounding regional hospitals and clinics.
  "When patients suffer complications in a clinic or regional hospital they are
transferred to a tertiary hospital which has much more advanced care," said
Mlambo.
 "The claims have not yet been proven. You cannot control what people want to
sue you for," he said.
 Mbengashe told the Daily Dispatch 98% of litigation related to "birth and birth
trauma".
  "We believe if we provide the best quality care, we can avoid creating harm to
our patients and to unborn or newly born children."
  He said the increase in patients suing government was of great concern.
Officials in the department were colluding with outside parties by stealing and
destroying medical records.
 This needed to be stopped. Negligent health practitioners were being suspended
and subjected to disciplinary processes.
 Key areas of intervention included tightening up on the signing of a consent
form before surgery, and ensuring patients were properly informed about the
risks before agreeing to procedures. Doctors were obliged to communicate with
the patient on what could happen.
 It was also agreed the protocols and guidelines already in place should be
followed to prevent harm and further injury to patients.
 "In order for our professionals to practise their profession they need the
tools of the trade, the essential equipment to do the work," said Mbengashe.
 Health expert Dr Helmut Fritsche said health practitioners were being sued all
over the world.
  "But there are those unexplainable problems that arise in this difficult
profession where there is no one to blame. I am not defending cruel, negligent
and incompetent people," Fritsche said.
 Mthatha state attorney Sithembele Tshitshi said his job was to curb legal
costs. - zwangam@dispatch.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2015 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             April 8, 2014 Tuesday

Employers must pay for work-related injuries

LENGTH: 241  words


Employers are obliged to pay for the treatment of employees for injuries
sustained at work in accordance with Article 33 of the national labor law, said
Bandar Al-Amoudi, a prominent Saudi lawyer.


Payment will have to be made either directly or indirectly and includes hospital
stay, medical tests and analysis, X-rays and compensatory equipment, in addition
to transportation to the place of treatment.
"The labor law provision stipulates that injuries be classified within
categories according to a social insurance system," he said. "Vocational
illnesses are classified within a work injury system and patient history will
begin from the first medical citation of the illness."
The law obliges employers to bear all expenses arising from work-related
injuries, including compensatory damages.
"Employers will also be obliged to pay expenses for fatal cases resulting from
work-related injuries, in addition to compensation," he said.
Hospitals, however, will be obliged to pay compensatory damage if hospital
negligence is proven in taking preventive measures against infection.
Such legal action may be followed by state or Health Ministry intervention.
Authorities can take dramatic legal action against hospital administrations and
workers and the hospital might even be closed down temporarily pending
investigation.
The hospital might face permanent closure if investigation reveals that it poses
a danger to patients.© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 19, 1994, Monday, City Edition

Citrus rape lawsuits face complex test

BYLINE: JIM ROSS

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: INVERNESS



(ran PW edition of PT)

As they gear up for a second round in the legal arena, women suing Citrus
Memorial Hospital and its infamous former employee, Bruce Alan Young, will be
forced to change their strategy and procedures.

Why? Because proceeding in a medical malpractice action is significantly
different than pursuing a general negligence claim, as the women originally
wanted to do, legal experts say.

Money is one difference. Because so many medical experts and studies are
necessary to handle a medical malpractice claim, trying such a case costs at
least $ 25,000, according to Tampa lawyer Fritz Gray, who handles medical
malpractice cases and is certified as an expert in civil trial law.

Negligence cases typically are less pricey. "They (the malpractice cases)  are
too expensive to take frivolous ones," Gray said.

Time is another problem. With few exceptions, the statute of limitations  runs
out two years after the alleged abuse occurred. And for the claims that  are
timely, a complicated legal process is required before plaintiffs can file
suit.

No such barriers exist in the negligence realm. The statute of limitations  is
four years and suits can be - and in this case were - filed without warning  or
waiting.

As for the legal issues at hand, a lot will be the same. The women still  say
Young raped them while they recovered from surgery, and they still say  Citrus
Memorial is liable for that and for its own negligence in hiring,  retaining and
supervising Young.

The legal challenges, and the hospital's defenses, will be similar to those  in
a negligence action.

And the issue that everyone is interested in - money judgments against the
hospital - has some twists as well.

If the cases proceed to trial and a jury finds the hospital liable in some
fashion, there would be no cap on damages for pain and suffering, Gray said.  If
the hospital admitted liability - something health care providers rarely do  in
such cases - damages for pain and suffering would be limited to $ 350,000 in  a
medical malpractice case, state law shows.

Police arrested Young, a 45-year-old Inverness man, Oct. 3 after a fellow  nurse
found him atop a 15-year-old girl who was recovering from surgery. The  nurse
told police that it appeared Young was forcing sexual intercourse on the  girl.

Since then, five lawsuits against the nurse and his former employer have  been
filed. A judge dismissed three of the suits earlier this month, saying  they
must be filed under the strict rules that govern medical malpractice  actions.

Many other women have accused Young of raping them, and more lawsuits are
expected.

To get the legal ball rolling, plaintiffs must find a medical expert to  report
that the woman was the victim of medical malpractice. After that, the
plaintiffs must notify the hospital that they are considering filing suit.

The hospital then has 90 days to investigate and make a settlement offer.  The
parties will engage in an informal "discovery" process.

"You have to put your cards on the table and show what you have," said  James T.
Ferrara, a Boca Raton lawyer.

If nothing is resolved, then the plaintiffs may file suit.

If the cases make it to trial, the plaintiffs must prove that Young raped  them.
That could be difficult, considering that all the patients were sedated  and
recovering from surgery at the time of alleged  molestation; however, it  will
be easier than it would be in the criminal arena, where the charge must  be
proved beyond a reasonable doubt.

As in the criminal cases, evidence of Young's behavior in other attacks  might
be allowed to help prove that he was guilty in the case at hand.

Next, the women will attack the hospital on four basic grounds: vicarious
liability, negligent hiring, negligent retention and negligent supervision.

"All they need is one," Gray said.

Under the first point, the plaintiffs will try to show that the hospital is
vicariously liable for its employee's alleged acts. The hospital doesn't have
to be actively negligent; it simply must suffer for deeds its agent carried  out
while in the scope of his duties.

The hospital's defense - and there's plenty of legal precedent to back it  up -
will be that Young stopped being a nurse and started acting on his own  when he
allegedly attacked his patients.

"They've got a real good argument on that. It's a tough one. I wouldn't  rule it
out," Gray said.

Helping the women will be the legal precedent set in 1988, when the 2nd
District Court of Appeal found that a jury should decide when a person's
official capacity ends and when the person starts acting on his own.

In that case, a boy who was sexually molested by a Boy Scout leader sued  the
organization.

If the vicarious-liability theory doesn't prevail, the women can argue that  the
hospital was negligent by improperly hiring Young, retaining him and not
adequately supervising him.

That's when the women can talk about Young's sexual affair with a high  school
student when he was a teacher; Citrus Memorial's failure to check  Young's
record with the Department of Education before hiring him; and sexual  abuse
allegations that surfaced against him and were dismissed by the hospital  in
August, allowing Young to allegedly continue to attack more patients.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES; LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Bruce Alan Young, (ran PT)

                            Times Publishing Company


                              405 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 April 17, 2011

Beacon considering its legal options on co-location losses

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 371 words


Beacon Medical Group (BMG) has refused to comment on mounting speculation this
weekend that it has lodged a complaint with the European Commission over the
collapse of its co-location deals with the state and the Health Service
Executive (HSE).

The hospital developer has been considering its legal options for a number of
weeks since the projects were culled. Sources said Beacon was also likely to
have lodged a complaint against the VHI with the European Commission's
competition directorate.

A HSE source said the executive had received correspondence from Beacon, saying
the developer had reserved its position.

He said the group had claimed its contracts had been unfairly terminated, but
that the HSE maintained the contracts had just expired.

VHI said it understood that BMG had signaled it might complain to the European
Commission.

It has been widely speculated that hospital developers with advanced co-location
plans, BMG and Synchrony, would take legal action over the scrapping of the
projects, as they had made substantial investments.

BMG has spent  30 million on its plans to date, and legal sources said the
consortiums could seek damages for future loss of earnings.

BMG and Synchrony had three 65-year contracts to lease grounds beside three
public hospitals.

BMG recently bought back the 40 per cent interest held by US multinational UPMC
in BMG's co-location hospitals.

The new government pledged to scrap previous health minister Mary Harney's
controversial hospital plan, unveiled in 2005, to build co-located private
hospitals on the grounds of public hospitals.

Earlier this month, at a meeting attending by health minister Dr James Reilly,
the HSE decided not to grant any further extensions to the project agreements
for those colocated units.

Speaking in the Dáil last week, Reilly said the developers would lose deposits
totalling  1.4 million following the scrapping of the projects. BMG and
Synchrony had signed project agreements with the state to build hospitals at
Beaumont and St James's Hospitals in Dublin, Cork University Hospital and
Limerick Regional Hospital.

Beacon and Synchrony declined to comment last week. The European Commission's
competition unit said it would not comment on individual cases.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                August 16, 2010

Medical-legal partnerships receive boost in new bills

BYLINE: By Chris Silva, amednews staff. Posted Aug. 16, 2010.

SECTION: GOVERNMENT; Pg. 10 Vol. 53 No. 33

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: Washington



HIGHLIGHT: The AMA, other medical organizations and the ABA support MLPs, which
pair legal aid organizations with physician groups and hospitals.


 A bipartisan group of lawmakers has introduced bills that would allocate $10
million to test the value of medical-legal partnerships.

MLPs integrate legal assistance into the medical setting in an effort to improve
the well-being of patients. They seek to eliminate barriers to a healthy
lifestyle that often prevent vulnerable populations from getting the care they
need.

"Assistance in navigating our legal system is sometimes all it takes to prevent
individuals and their families from making repeated trips to the doctor or
hospital for a reoccurring condition," said Sen. Tom Harkin (D, Iowa), chair of
the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.

On July 29, Harkin, along with Sens. Evan Bayh (D, Ind.) and Kit Bond (R, Mo.),
introduced the bill -- the Medical-Legal Partnerships for Health Act. Reps.
Daniel Maffei (D, N.Y.) and Christopher Murphy (D, Conn.) introduced companion
legislation in the House.

"MLPs help people obtain legal aid necessary to ensure that they receive the
care and benefits they deserve to lead healthier lives and to avoid future
injuries and illnesses," Harkin said. "Through making investments in MLPs, we
also save money by addressing preventable health conditions. It is my hope that
we can get the support needed in Congress for this important service."

The lawmakers said the legislation would:

     ·     Provide federal support to hospitals and attorneys to establish MLPs
          and encourage local buy-in by requiring each MLP to match at least 10%
          of federal grant funding.
     ·     Help cut health care costs by reducing emergency department visits.
     ·     Support a healthier work force by reducing the rate at which
          employees are absent from work or show up despite being ill.



A growing concept

Attorneys and paralegals are partnered with physicians and nurses at more than
200 hospitals, health centers and group practices nationwide, according to the
National Center for Medical-Legal Partnership, founded at Boston Medical
Center's Dept. of Pediatrics in 1993.

According to BMC, nearly 70% of its patients are poor, making them particularly
vulnerable to environmental and social stressors that impact health.

Barry Zuckerman, MD, said he founded the center after becoming frustrated with
continuously having to send sick children home to apartments that were in
substandard condition, often unheated and with unhealthy levels of mold.

He said he recognized that an attorney could help patients navigate complex
legal problems so patients could avoid situations that lead to medical problems,
such as a lack of food or heat.

"We can treat the health problem with medication, but the point is the cause of
it frequently is a legal one, and we're going right to the root cause," said Dr.
Zuckerman, who is also professor and chair of pediatrics at the Boston
University School of Medicine. "It's amazing how many people get their utilities
shut off in the winter when it need not happen. These are things that our
lawyers can help us prevent."

Initially, the center helped provide legal services exclusively on behalf of
children, but it expanded the effort in January 2009 to assist all individuals.

For the past year, the center has been monitoring the progress of a pilot study
examining the impact of MLPs. Preliminary data have shown a 50% decrease in ED
visits after medical-legal interventions.

Dr. Zuckerman hopes that the new bills in Congress will help launch a more
cohesive national program that would build on the resources started by his
center and others.

In New York, for instance, the Syracuse Medical Legal Partnership links training
programs in a pediatrics department with a clinical program at the Syracuse
University College of Law. At the University of Kansas, law students work at the
Family Health Care Legal Services Clinic to assist poor clients who have been
referred to them through Southwest Boulevard Family Health Care in Kansas City,
Kan.

Physician support

The concept of MLPs has received the backing of several physician organizations,
including the American Medical Association.

At the AMA Annual Meeting in Chicago in June, the Board of Trustees recommended
that the Association "should encourage physicians to develop MLPs to help
identify and resolve diverse legal issues that affect patients' health and
well-being."

"Through this partnership, the unmet legal or environmental needs of patients
can be addressed before they reach crisis proportions," said AMA board member
David O. Barbe, MD. "The AMA encourages physicians to develop medical-legal
partnerships, and we will help them do this by creating a model agreement and
working with key stakeholders on education."

MLPs also have received support or endorsement from other groups, including the
American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Hospital Assn. and the American Bar
Assn.

Working collaborations

Besides helping patients, medical-legal partnerships can increase revenue for
physicians and hospitals. If an uninsured patient's Medicaid application has
been denied, a legal service organization can help the person appeal the denial,
and Medicaid can be rebilled. Here are some existing programs:

The Law and Health Project: Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation,
Southern Illinois University School of Law and Southern Illinois Healthcare.

The Medicaid Appeals Project: Legal Aid of Missouri and Truman Medical Center in
Kansas City.

The San Diego Benefits Advocacy Project: Scripps Mercy Hospital and the Legal
Aid Society of San Diego.

LegalHealth: New York Legal Assistance Group and 14 New York City hospitals and
community-based health organizations.

Source: "Health Care Recovery Dollars: A Sustainable Strategy for Medical-Legal
Partnerships?" The Medical Legal Partnership for Children, April 2008

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          Irish Independent (Ireland)

                            November 10, 2006 Friday

Hospital drops legal bid against patient's book

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 259 words


THE Mater Hospital has dropped its legal action against former patient Janette
Byrne who wrote a book about inadequacies she found in the hospital when she
attended for treatment.

Junior Minister Tim O'Malley told the Dail yesterday that the Department of
Health was advised by the HSE that the hospital was not pursuing a legal action
against the patient.

Corrected

However, the hospital wants what it considers inaccuracies and exaggerations to
be corrected by the publishers for any future editions of the book.

Labour TD Joe Costello said Ms Byrne had taken up the cudgel on behalf of
vulnerable sick patients who were left lying on trolleys and sitting on chairs
for days and he wanted to know if any taxpayers' money was being spent on the
threatened legal action.

He said it would be a scandal if any state money was used in that fashion.

Ms Byrne had done fantastic service for the country in highlighting the issues
and somebody like that should not be silenced, he said.

The State could not in any way collude in such silencing, Mr Costello said.

Mr O'Malley said the department had been advised that any costs arising from the
course of action being taken by the hospital would be paid out of its own
resources and not out of any money provided by the Exchequer.

He said the hospital "accepts the right of a patient to highlight what they
perceive to be inadequacies in the service and acknowledges the entitlement of
the patient to express opinions in relation to the treatment received as a
patient in the Hospital".

Geraldine Collins

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                October 22, 1999

Sacked nurses take on Matilda over contract changes

BYLINE: ALISON SMITH

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 326 words


Nurses at the exclusive Matilda Hospital claim they are being fired for fighting
a legal battle over changes to their working conditions.

Two of five nurses who sought legal recourse over alleged breaches of contract
have been dismissed, although the hospital says their dismissal is coincidental.

One of them, Jeffrey Morris, says management told him seven days before he was
due to lodge unprecedented court action against the hospital that they could no
longer afford his services.

The New Zealander says he was ordered not to speak to other staff and that
security guards accompanied him to his nursing quarters and packers prepared his
possessions the next day for shipment home.

An estimated 250 other staff were handed new contracts last week to "eliminate
ambiguities" in the disputed contract. Staff have been given until today to sign
or face dismissal.

In a letter seen by the Post, chief executive officer Mary Rafferty says
changes, which include a two-week cut in annual leave, were "crucial to the
survival of the hospital" and brought "outdated" benefits in line with other
hospitals.

"If you are not prepared to accept the revised terms, we have, regrettably, no
option but to terminate your employment with the hospital," the letter
accompanying the new contract states.

Ms Rafferty said the Matilda was "a very fair employer" and that the intention
of the new contracts was not to reduce staff benefits.

She said she believed it was legal to threaten workers with dismissal if they
did not sign, since the letter had been approved by the hospital's lawyers.

"I'm prepared to let two or three people go if they won't sign them," she said.

It was coincidence the hospital had terminated contracts of two of the five
staff taking legal action against them. She said staff morale had not been
affected.

A Labour Department spokesman said it was considering the allegations against
the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Photo: Edmond So); Swift exit - New Zealander Jeffrey Morris says his
job was terminated seven days before he was due to bring a court action against
the hospital over changes to his contract.

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1999 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              409 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 12, 2011 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

ASC Communications: New Hospital CFO Report Provides News, Guidance Straight to
Healthcare Financial Leaders' Inboxes

LENGTH: 235  words


New Delhi, Nov.12 -- Becker's Hospital Review is proud to announce the launch of
its Hospital CFO Report, a free electronic newsletter containing
up-to-the-minute news, analysis and guidance on hospital financial and revenue
cycle issues.

The e-newsletter, sent each Wednesday, provides a round-up of the most relevant
business, financial and legal issues affecting hospital and health system chief
financial officers and revenue cycle specialists. Each issue features current
news, analysis and best practices on hospital financial and revenue cycle
issues, including hospital profitability and debt financing, the transition to
ICD-10 and Recovery Audit Contractors.

Also included are links to relevant Becker's Hospital Review feature articles,
including popular "people to know" and "hospitals to know" lists, and coverage
on the financial earnings of top non-profit and for-profit hospital systems.

About Becker's Hospital Review

Becker's Hospital Review is a bimonthly publication offering up-to-date business
and legal news and analysis relating to hospitals and health systems. Our
content is geared toward high-level hospital leaders, and we work to provide
valuable content, including hospital and health system news, best practices and
legal guidance specifically for these decision makers. Each issue of Becker's
Hospital Review reaches more than 15,000 people, primarily acute-care hospital
CEOs and CFOs.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     January 27, 2005 Thursday Home Edition

City Life Business: PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: City Life Midtown; Pg. 3JN

LENGTH: 425 words


Legal Aid Society chooses another member of board

The Atlanta Legal Aid Society announces the addition of Robin M. Hensley to its
advisory board. Hensley is president of Raising the Bar, an Atlanta-based
consulting firm.

A recipient of the Georgia State University School of Accounting's Distinguished
Alumnus award, Hensley has served on the board of Northside Hospital for a
decade and also has served as president of the Northside Hospital Foundation.
Hensley is an alumna of Leadership Atlanta and an honorary lifetime board of
directors member of the American Cancer Society.

Managing broker

Todd Tucker has been promoted to managing broker of Prudential Georgia Realty's
new Douglasville office. Tucker previously served as assistant managing broker
of Prudential's Northwest office in Cobb County. He holds a Graduate, Realtor
Institute designation from the Georgia Association of Realtors and the national
designation of Accredited Buyer's Representative from the Real Estate Buyers
Agent Council. He holds his associate broker's license and Prudential's Fine
Homes Specialist designation and is a graduate of the University of Georgia.

Commissioners

District 5 Commissioner Emma I. Darnell was named vice chairwoman of the Fulton
County Board of Commissioners. Elected to the board in May 1992 to fill an
unexpired term, Darnell was re-elected to full terms as commissioner in 1994,
1998 and 2002. Her district consists of portions of central and northwest
Atlanta and southwest Fulton County. Darnell is president of Darnell &
Associates, which provides management consultants on equal employment
opportunity and equal business opportunity programs. She earned her bachelor's
degree from Fisk University, a master's degree from Teacher's College at
Columbia University and a law degree from the Howard University School of Law.

Partners selected

Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP have elected Jessica F. Pardi, Seslee S. Smith,
Jack D. Todd, Sidney Summers Welch and John H. Williamson partners at the firm.
Pardi practices in the areas of insurance litigation, reinsurance dispute
resolution, complex coverage disputes and insurer insolvency. Smith, who is with
the commercial litigation group, specializes in the defense of product liability
lawsuits. Todd focuses on intellectual property, technology law and licensing,
and related enforcement and protection. Welch, who is with the health care
group, specializes in representing physicians and physician groups. Williamson
is in the commercial litigation group.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Briefs

                Copyright 2005 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              411 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Tribune (Elkin, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

Questions remain on hospital's future

BYLINE: Karen Holbrook, The Tribune, Elkin, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 806 words


May 28--The fate of the hospital located in Yadkin County is still in question
after a meeting that occurred between Yadkin County and Hugh Chatham Memorial
Hospital representatives Thursday.

The Yadkin County and HCMH representatives met with the leadership of the North
Carolina Department of Health and Human Services in Raleigh to discuss the
unauthorized closure of Yadkin Valley Community Hospital, by former operators
HMC/CAH May 22.

NCDHHS Director Drexdal Pratt and his staff informed the group that they
understood all the facts surrounding the sudden unauthorized closure of the
hospital, and he informed Yadkin County that the Department of Health and Human
Services would do everything legally possible to facilitate health care delivery
in Yadkin County, according to a statement from Yadkin County officials Thursday
afternoon.

In the press release, the county officials asked for patience as the county and
state governments work together to find a resolution. "This transition will take
some time, and Yadkin County asks that its citizens be understanding of this,"
read the release.

A hearing in Wake County on Monday is the next step in the process. The county,
with the help of healthcare attorney Allyson Labban of Smith Moore Leatherwood,
will be pursuing continuing legal action against HMC at the hearing in Raleigh.
The county plans to pursue legal action and request that the temporary
restraining order obtained on May 22 be a permanent restraining order to hold
HMC accountable for its early closure of the hospital.

The hospital has been the topic of hot debate in recent months. Despite legal
action on behalf of the county, the hospital shut down May 22. Since February,
the county has been in negotiations to find a new company to operate the
county-owned hospital building. When that failed, the county reentered
negotiations with the operator, HMC/CAH, but those negotiations also fell
through. After learning that HMC planned to shut down the hospital over the
weekend rather than fulfill its duty to remain open through its lease term which
ends July 31, the county took legal action to prevent the shutdown, but to no
avail.

During the opening session at an emergency meeting held by Yadkin County
commissioners Tuesday, County Manager Lisa Hughes read aloud from documentation
describing the county's ongoing financial difficulties with HMC. As part of the
original lease agreement with HMC, the group was to purchase land within two
years and build a new facility within four years, but in October of 2011, the
group filed for bankruptcy. Though the hospital remained open throughout the
bankruptcy proceedings, they were no longer able to pay rent to the county for
use of the hospital building. The county amended the lease with HMC several
times, no longer charging the group rent in exchange for using parts of the
facility for a county EMS center and health department clinic.

According to information presented to community members who serve on the
hospital's board, HMC has been able to turn around its financial losses and the
company has been making a profit, though they continued to use the county-owned
building rent-free. As the lease term was set to expire in April, the county
began discussing alternative options and began a Request for Proposal (RFP)
process in order to find another hospital organization to operate the facility.
During the RFP process, the county did enter a new lease agreement with HMC
allowing it to operate the hospital until July 31 while attempting to find a new
hospital operator.

Following the withdrawal of proposals from the three groups who submitted them,
the county then reentered negotiations with HMC. Per HMC's request via email to
Hughes, a new lease agreement was drawn up by the county under the same terms
suggested by Hugh Chatham Memorial Hospital in their submitted proposal, with
the exception of a $750,000 payment meant to assist Hugh Chatham in purchasing
the hospital assets from HMC.

HMC rejected this proposal and submitted documents requesting that a new lease
between HMC and the county include a $1.5 million payment by the county to HMC
upon signing of the lease and $300,000 per year in indigent care costs and to
provide them a $1 match for every $2 spent on capital improvements.

On the afternoon of May 22, HMC informed hospital employees that the county was
evicting them from the premises and they instructed everyone to leave. According
to county officials, the county had not issued an eviction notice, but rather
had gone to Wake County Superior Court for a court order to prevent HMC from
closing the hospital down early.

Karen Holbrook may be reached at 336-258-4059 or on Twitter @KarenHolbrook00.

___ (c)2015 The Tribune (Elkin, N.C.) Visit The Tribune (Elkin, N.C.) at
elkintribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150528-VN-Questions-remain-on-hospital-s-future-0528-20150528

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VN


                           Copyright 2015 The Tribune


                              412 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       May 21, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Justice for the People to Strengthen the Party's
Mass Line Services Practice

LENGTH: 710  words


May 21 -- Recently, Jinxiu Yao Autonomous County conduct prevention activities
to combat illegal fund-raising Awareness Month, Jinxiu Yao Autonomous County
People's Court judges and county government, public security bureau,
procuratorate and many other units jointly launched \ "to prevent and combat
illegal fund-raising \" special campaign . Paulownia town judges to the area,
the first row of the town and the county Cultural Square, the establishment of
legal advice at the point in the mobility-intensive to distributing promotional
materials, on-site to explain, in the form of case statement to the public
popularity of fund-raising fraud prevention knowledge to make the masses fully
Recognizing the dangers of illegal fund-raising, the initiative away from the
illegal fund-raising, consciously resist the illegal fund-raising.



Grassroots, communities, prevention of illegal fund-raising propaganda campaign
against the hospital only to strengthen the judiciary to serve the people,
practice a microcosm of the Party's mass line. In recent years, Kim Soo courts
uphold justice for the people, impartial administration of justice, based on the
trial function and continue to broaden the judicial service channels, innovative
service approach to the rich ethnic characteristics of the judicial district
serving the public brand, in-depth practice of the party's mass line educational
practice do a good job, "three committed", and achieved good social effects.

Dedicated to serving the overall situation, the service of the people

Hospital leadership to lead the hospital police officers to firmly establish the
overall awareness, commitment to serving the overall situation, a profound
understanding of the Party's line, principles and policies and major decisions
and plans, since education practice activities, the hospital pay more attention
to strengthening software and hardware construction. Software, and constantly
improve the institutional mechanisms to pipe people to pipe the hospital. This
year, to strengthen and improve the public funds, records management, office
research and other 16 systems and regulations. Hardware, sent through the courts
and tribunals for the masses to provide standardized construction demands more
convenient environment, such as the autonomous region's civil division naming
rights of women and children Kong, was formally established in the first row of
Laibin people's courts and legal education youth base .

Committed to judicial activism, to resolve social conflicts

The hospital is committed to judicial activism, from efforts to resolve social
contradictions, in Yao create a joint exploration area with Yao old (population
respected person) the use of "stone of the law" dispute mediation Yao people new
ways, in recent years, hospital civil and commercial cases and withdrawal rates
above 80%. At the same time, through the opening in the convenience of filing an
appointment, carry out the "Circuit Court" on trial, "the court midday," "Night
Court" in the implementation of the Housing Construction Bureau, the IRS set up
information-sharing platform, the use of multi-faceted , the whole point of the
system of justice, to protect people's rights, safeguard social stability.

Committed to advocacy guide, extend judicial services

The hospital is committed to advocacy guide, through various forms of legal
advocacy work to extend the service of justice for the people, promote the
socialist concept of rule of law, reflecting the practice of socialist rule,
court officers to show "fair administration of justice, one people," the
judgment and mental performance style. The hospital long-standing legal services
into the organs, enterprises, into the community, into the countryside, into the
campus, sent legal feast for the masses. According to incomplete statistics,
since 2011, the hospital to carry out promotional activities related to the
legal system more than 50 times. In addition, the hospital also by inviting
schoolchildren, institutions public officials, migrant workers, soldiers
stationed visit local courts, to observe the trial, the Court of cultural
understanding, dispel the impression that the Court of mystification, and
establish a transparent, good for the people of Justice image.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 9, 1997

Court bid to win nursing home place;Bed-blocking trap

BYLINE: Exclusive Ian Smith

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 614 words


AN Edinburgh woman has begun legal moves to bring the first Scottish test case
over the bed-blocking crisis in hospitals.

Mrs Jessy Hall, 79, from Bonny-rigg, near Edinburgh, has been in hospital since
April despite finishing her medical treatment in July, and claims Midlothian
Council is failing to meet its obligations under social work legislation.

Her family say a nursing home place is available but the council's financial
restrictions mean she cannot be moved to it.

A lawyer working on her behalf has met with a QC, beginning the legal process
towards a judicial review of the bed-blocking situation. Bed-blocking is the
common term for the situation which sees elderly people being kept in hospital
because local authority social work departments do not have the funds to provide
the nursing or residential care they need.

Mrs Hall is applying for a judicial review on the basis that by not providing
her with the care recommended in a social work assessment, the social work
department of Midlothian Council is in breach of its statutory obligations under
the Social Work Scotland Act 1968.

Mrs Hall is applying for legal aid to fund the move and, according to Fighting
for Elderly At Risk (Fear), the Edinburgh-based voluntary organisation which is
supporting her legal bid, two more Edinburgh women are also planning legal
action, with more expected to follow throughout the country.

Mrs Hall was admitted to hospital last April after suffering a stroke and,
despite being assessed by social workers as needing nursing care in July, she is
still in the long-stay ward of an Edinburgh hospital.

Her daughter, Mrs Janette Barnes, said resorting to legal action had come only
after exhausting all other means of getting her mother out of hospital.

She said: "I'm quite prepared to have my mother's case used as a precedent,
simply because if she's in this position how many more are.

"If we pursue this and manage to get my mother off the list, there will still be
some other poor soul having to wait. My mother is my priority but, hopefully, we
can help other people in the same position.

"The situation can't be allowed to continue because it's just going to get
worse."

Mrs Aileen Banks, who set up FEAR two years ago after her mother was a victim of
bed-blocking, said the legal move was just the beginning of a series.

She said: "Instead of presenting a big block of legal writs at one time, we
would like to serve one-a-week to keep the pressure up. We hope we can get it to
court as quickly as possible.

"It's going to open the floodgates, especially when people realise this can be
done on legal aid.

"People are worried about the cost of lawyers but when they see that something
can be done, I

think we will be snowed under with people wanting to take the same course of
action."

A spokeswoman for Help the Aged said: "This is happening in local authorities
across the country and is totally unacceptable."

Mr Andrew Reid, chairman of the Association of Directors of Social Work's
committee on care in the community, acknowledged the bed-blocking problem but
said finding a solution would be more difficult.

He said: "Bed-blocking is a problem in various parts of the country and it is in
no-one's interests, certainly not the people waiting to move out of hospital and
not for the health service who could use the blocked beds for people who need
hospital treatment.

"It's such a complex matter, there's no easy solution. The way forward has to
involve all the parties, including local authorities and health boards and
trusts meeting to discuss and agree the best use of the available resources."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


                              414 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Family of Jahi McMath in legal fight with Children's Hospital

LENGTH: 321  words


There are new accusations and a new legal fight Tuesday evening in the battle
between Children's Hospital Oakland and the family of a 13-year-old girl left
brain dead after a tonsil surgery nearly three weeks ago.


This comes one day after an Alameda County judge ordered Jahi McMath be kept on
a ventilator for one more week.
McMath's mother spends her time by her daughter's bedside looking for signs of
life, hoping for another day. "Because, I look at her and I feel like, as her
mother, I'm supposed to be able to help her. And this hospital has my hands
tied," said Jahi's mother Nailah Winkfield.In the meantime, the battle over the
brain dead teen's future is squarely in the hands of the lawyers and perhaps, a
federal appeals court.
"So, this is a constantly changing game for these folks and it's not a game for
Jahi," said McMath family lawyer Christopher Dolan.
McMath's family and Children's Hospital Oakland have both filed legal briefs in
local and federal court.
The family says they have identified a facility in New York, called New
Beginnings, which is willing to take Jahi on a ventilator. They've even raised
more than $30,000 on a crowd-funding website to pay for air transport across the
country.
But first, the family says any facility willing to accept Jahi McMath requires
both a tracheotomy and a feeding tube procedure performed on the girl, something
the hospital continues to refuse to do.
"What the family attorney is demanding is for surgery to be done, for anesthesia
to be applied to someone who is deceased, that's just not done," said Children's
Hospital Oakland spokesperson Sam Singer.
"Pretty much we want Children's Hospital to either help us or get out of our
way," said Jahi's Uncle Omari Sealey.
Late Monday, an Alameda County Superior Court judge ordered Children's Hospital
Oakland to keep McMath on a ventilator through January 7, 2014. That is also
when a hearing is set in federal court.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 11, 1998, Sunday

Hospital legal fees about $ 8.8-million

BYLINE: AMY J. SCHATZ

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words



Wondering who the real winners of the Regional Healthcare Inc. bankruptcy
dispute will be?

The answer is one thing that has never been questioned in this case: the
lawyers.

Five years of bankruptcy protection has meant five years of $ 150-an-hour  legal
advice, five years of costly mandatory monthly financial reports and  five years
of miscellaneous expenses - from $ 800 airline tickets to $ 8 gas  station
receipts.

An analysis by the Times of the legal and accounting fees rung up since
Regional Healthcare sought bankruptcy protection in February 1993 has set the
price tag at roughly $ 8.8-million. That's equivalent to spending almost $ 5,000

 a day, every day, for the past five years for legal and financial advice. That

 number will certainly rise before the last motion is filed in the case.

Why so much? No one ever said bankruptcy was cheap.

Under federal law, Regional Healthcare must reimburse legal expenses  granted by
the bankruptcy court. So far, the court has awarded about  $ 3.21-million in
such expenses. The money likely will be paid from the more  than $ 32-million in
cash Regional Healthcare has amassed during the past few  years.

And while neither Hernando County nor Regional Healthcare's main creditor,  CNA
Insurance Cos. of Chicago, has filed for reimbursement of fees, both plan  to.

"We've filed a claim (of intent) with the court for our legal fees,"  County
Attorney Bruce Snow said. CNA's spokesman said the company's lawyers  have done
likewise. Both said they would file for actual reimbursement after  the case has
been resolved.

At times, some in the Regional Healthcare case have wondered whether that  day
would come. Regional Healthcare has become somewhat infamous at the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Tampa, where employees of the clerk's office roll their
eyes when asked about the case, which fills 63 binders and has 1,104 docket
entries.

The case is sure to fill a few more binders this month, since Regional
Healthcare and its creditors are due in court Thursday to arrive at a
resolution.

This week, at least two important meetings will be held on Regional  Healthcare.
Before Thursday's court session, the County Commission will get an  update
Tuesday on the case. The commission will also take up the question of  whether
they want Regional Healthcare's hospitals - Brooksville and Spring  Hill
Regional Hospital and PineBrook Regional Medical Center - to remain  non-profit.

During the last two weeks, the hospital board has been debating offers from
three hospital companies, one non-profit and two for-profit.

County Commission Chairwoman Nancy Robinson said Tuesday's meeting will be  a
chance for commissioners and the public to learn what turning the non-profit
Regional Healthcare over to a for-profit company could mean.

"This will be more than an update," Robinson said. "The board needs to  discuss
the issue of for-profit versus non-profit. The goal here is for the  community
to maintain the facilities, maintain the level of quality and  indigent care we
have now."

The county has a say in the matter because it owns Brooksville Regional
Hospital and leases it. If Regional Healthcare affiliates with or is taken  over
by a for-profit company, the county's lease would be broken, and a new  one
would be needed.

By the end of last week, Regional Healthcare did not have a final deal with  any
of the three hospital companies with which it has been talking. Regional
Healthcare chief executive officer Tom Barb said discussions are continuing.

The hospital board has been trying to find a partner since deciding it was
unlikely the hospitals could pay off $ 82-million in debt the bankruptcy court
ruled last year that they would have to pay.

If the board approves an affiliation, there is a possibility that Regional
Healthcare's 5-year-old bankruptcy dispute could be settled out of court.

If an affiliation does not happen, both Regional Healthcare and CNA will  return
to bankruptcy court Thursday morning. That hearing will decide once and  for all
what will happen to Regional Healthcare's facilities.

Will Regional Healthcare be allowed to stay independent and work out how it
will repay its $ 82-million debt, or will CNA be awarded control of the
hospitals?



Fee facts

Amount of fees reimbursed through the U.S. Bankruptcy Court: $ 3.21-million
(Lawyers: $ 2.06-million  Accountants: $ 1.14-million)

Amount of fees pending before U.S. Bankruptcy Court: $ 159,765.03  (Lawyers: $
17,775.05  Accountants: $ 141,989.98)

Estimated amount in legal fees accrued by creditors CNA Insurance Cos.:  $
5-million

Estimated amount in legal fees accrued by Hernando County: $ 300,000

Estimated grand total of fees for bankruptcy to date: $ 8.8-million

Number of days since bankruptcy was filed: 1,780

Estimated cost per day in fees for RHI bankruptcy case: $ 4,944

Sources: U.S. Bankruptcy Court filings; CNA Insurance Cos.; Hernando County
Attorney

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR CHART; looks at the fee facts surrounding the bankruptcy of
Regional Healthcare, includes a drawing of a bag of money and stacks of coins

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              416 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Exeter Hospital wants freeze on legal discoveries in hep c outbreak

BYLINE: Jim Haddadin, Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 715 words


Oct. 02--BRENTWOOD -- Exeter Hospital is asking a superior court judge to
temporarily block attorneys from using their legal powers to request documents
and information about the hepatitis C outbreak at the facility.

Exeter Hospital is named in 25 lawsuits filed in Rockingham Superior Court by
former patients who now carry the liver disease. That includes a class-action
lawsuit filed by Concord attorney Peter McGrath, whose clients now include 147
former Exeter Hospital patients. A handful have tested positive for the disease.
The remainder either received a negative test result or are awaiting more
information.

An attorney representing Exeter Hospital against the lawsuits filed a motion
Friday in Rockingham County Superior Court asking a judge to issue a temporary
stay of discovery in the cases. The move would stop the lawyers from forcing
employees such as Chief Executive Officer Kevin Callahan to give sworn
statements about the hepatitis C outbreak.

It would also prevent them from questioning the doctors and nurses who worked
side-by-side with David Kwiatkowski, the former Exeter Hospital cardiovascular
technician facing drug tampering charges in connection with the hepatitis C
outbreak.

Federal investigators say the 33-year-old spread the virus to patients in the
process of abusing stolen hospital narcotics. Kwiatkowski, a traveling hospital
worker, allegedly stole syringes of the anesthesia drug fentanyl, injected
himself, then allowed syringes contaminated with his blood to be reused on
patients.

Genetic testing has confirmed that 32 patients of the hospital are carrying the
identical strain of the virus diagnosed in Kwiatkowski.

Attorney Peter Mosseau, of Nelson Kinder + Mosseau, the law firm representing
the hospital, has asked the judge to freeze discovery actions until at least 90
days after a structuring conference is held with defendants in the lawsuit.

Those defendants are likely to include at least two former medical staffing
companies that employed Kwiatkowski. At least one attorney is also asking a
judge to add the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT) as one of
the defendants. ARRT is the group that provided a radiology certificate for
Kwiatkowski when he was later hired at Exeter Hospital.

Kwiatkowski has been employed as a traveling medical technician in at least 19
hospitals in eight states during the last decade, including stints in New York,
Maryland, Michigan, Georgia, Kansas, Arizona and Pennsylvania. His arrest has
spurred more than a dozen hospitals to begin reviewing their patient records to
identify people who may have been exposed to the virus.

At least four patients of the Hays Medical Center in Kansas, where Kwiatkowski
worked in 2010, have also been diagnosed with cases of hepatitis C "closely
related" to the strain identified in the Exeter Hospital outbreak.

Before he was hired in Exeter, Kwiatkowski was fired by hospitals in
Pennsylvania and Arizona due to problems with his conduct. In one instance in
2010, Kwiatkowski was found passed out inside a men's restroom while working at
the Arizona Heart Hospital.

According to documents obtained by Foster's Daily Democrat, the hospital worker
who found Kwiatkowski reported finding a syringe labeled "fentanyl" floating
inside the toilet beside him.

Springboard Staffing, which supplied Kwiatkowski to work at Arizona Heart
Hospital, said it fired Kwiatkowski immediately and told both a state radiology
board and ARRT that Kwiatkowski had been terminated after the 2010 incident. The
incident was never investigated because Kwiatkowski moved out of the state and
gave up his certification to work in Arizona.

He went on to work in hospitals in Pennsylvania, Kansas and Georgia before
reaching New Hampshire.

Hepatitis C is a liver disease that can lead to fatal health complications. It
is transferred through direct blood contact or from unsterilized or contaminated
equipment used or handled by a person infected with the virus. The hepatitis C
virus can't be contracted through casual contact, meaning you can't get
hepatitis C from shaking hands, hugging or sitting next to an infected person.

___ (c)2012 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily
Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121002-1FD-Exeter-Hospital-wants-freeze-on-legal
-discoveries-in-hep-c-outbreak-1002-20121002

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2012



CORRECTION:

Because of a reporter's error, the number of clients who have joined a class
action lawsuit against Exeter Hospital was incorrect in a story on Page 1 in
Tuesday's paper. A total of 180 clients have joined the suit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FD


               Copyright 2012 Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H


                              417 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   September 30, 1997, Tuesday, METRO EDITION

Doctors Hospital quits legal battle

BYLINE: By Rita Daly Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. F3

LENGTH: 232 words


   Doctors Hospital has given up a legal fight to stay open.

Faced with financial and community pressures, the hospital opted not to launch
an appeal of a Divisional Court ruling that confirmed the Health Services
Restructuring Commission's power to close it down.

Instead, it is ready to sit down with Toronto Hospital and negotiate, Doctors
Hospital president Brian McFarlane said yesterday.

"This is a new chapter. We have to move on," he said.

Doctors Hospital, in the city's west end, is slated to be closed by the end of
next year and its programs moved to Toronto's Western division where an
ambulatory care centre will be set up.

The deadline to file an appeal was today1, but McFarlane said the case wouldn't
have been heard until the new year.

"That's time and money - and time is money," he said.

The hospital has already spent more than $200,000 in legal costs fighting its
closing, he added.

Doctors was among four Metro hospitals that launched court actions against the
restructuring commission's decision to close them down. Women's College
Hospital, Orthopaedic and Arthritic Hospital, and Wellesley Central Hospital
have all now agreed to negotiate at the table, although Wellesley has also
served notice of an appeal.Ontario; Health; Services; Restructuring; Commission;
Toronto; hospital; closing; merger; finance; health; care; Doctors

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              418 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

East Lancs hospital bosses turn down opportunity to settle 10 negligence claims

BYLINE: Lawrence Dunhill

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 537 words


HEALTH bosses have rejected a deal to settle 10 negligence claims against the
Royal Blackburn and Burnley General hospitals.

A solicitors' firm that was involved in investigating the Mid Staffs hospital
scandal said East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust (ELHT) has pulled out of talks
aimed at avoiding costly court action.

The decision could cost the NHS an extra £500,000 in legal fees, the firm
claimed.

The trust has said it is unable to make any further comment while legal
proceedings are taking place.

There has been a spike in clinical negligence claims against the trust since
February last year, when Sir Bruce Keogh announced a major investigation into
its higher than expected 'death rates'.

The probe resulted in the hospitals being placed in special measures, which were
lifted in July after some key improvements were made.

Human rights solicitor Emma Jones, of London-based firm Leigh Day, who settled
120 legal claims relating to abuse and poor care at Stafford Hospital, said: "We
are investigating 10 cases of general poor care (at ELHT), which we believe
include some of the issues seen at Mid Staffordshire.

"We approached the trust to try and deal with the cases quickly and cheaply and
it did seem to be engaging, but now it has said, no, each one has to be
considered on its own merits. We are finishing our investigations and now have
no other option than to start legal proceedings."

She said it was generally 'much less stressful for the client and far cheaper
for the trust' to settle cases at an early stage. Although any damages awarded
to the claimant would remain the same if the case was taken to court, she said
NHS legal costs could rise from £8,000 to about £50,000 per case.

Ms Jones said she had been in discussions with ELHT's own legal team, before the
trust passed files to the NHS Litigation Authority, to which it paid an annual
contribution of £7.3 million in 2012/13.

The cases include that of Darwen pensioner Donald Barlow, whose family have
accused ELHT of 'appalling care' over a nine-week period last year.

As previously reported, daughter Dawn Shilson, 44, believes his death could have
been avoided if crucial procedures had not been cancelled several times.

Another case relates to Joan Kinlin, an 81-year-old from Burnley who died at the
Royal Blackburn Hospital in 2011.

The Health Service Ombudsman recently forced the trust to apologise for four
'service failures' relating to her care, although the failures were not found to
have contributed to her death.

Christine Pearson, chief nurse at ELHT, said the trust 'investigates all legal
claims thoroughly and makes decisions only after receiving the appropriate
advice from legal and clinical professionals', but she could not comment on the
10 cases.

Russ McLean, chairman of Pennine Lancashire Patient Voices Group, said: "I can
understand why the trust doesn't want to give solicitors carte-blanche, but the
sad reality is that when things go through court, it costs a lot more money."

The statement from Mrs Pearson added: "ELHT has received a number of claims from
Leigh Day & Company Solicitors which have been referred to the NHS Litigation
Authority "Leigh Day & Co and the NHSLA are investigating these claims as
appropriate."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 13, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dead mum's family takes action against under-fire hospital trust;
pennine acute have been accused of clinical negligence following death

BYLINE: Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 568 words


THE family of a mum-of-two who died after miscarrying are taking legal action
against under-fire hospital trust Pennine Acute, alleging clinical negligence.

Nanaaishat Momodu, 32, from Middleton, was 22 weeks pregnant when she lost her
baby at North Manchester General Hospital.

She was admitted with abdominal pain last October but died two days later after
her condition worsened.

Nanaaishat miscarried before she got to the hospital, but her family claim she
was told she would have to wait 48 hours to see if she would go into labour
naturally.

They allege that she wasn't given correct treatment quickly enough and also
criticised staffing levels.

Pennine Acute, which runs North Manchester General, the Royal Oldham Hospital,
Fairfield General and Rochdale Infirmary, has been branded 'inadequate' in a
scathing report by the Care Quality Commission.

The CQC uncovered severe under-staffing within maternity, neonatal and
paediatrics. In maternity, it found 'a poor culture with deeply entrenched
attitudes where some staff accepted suboptimal care as the norm.' .

At the time of the February inspection, there were 170 serious maternity and
gynaecology incidents still yet to be dealt with, 13 of which involved severe
harm or death.

News of the legal action was confirmed after an inquest into Nanaaishat's death
was opened and adjourned at Manchester Coroners Court. Coroner Nigel Meadows
said he has received a copy of an internal investigation report carried out by
the hospital.

A wholesale needed carried out public Solicitor Zak Independent experts in
obstetrics and midwifery could be appointed by the court to give evidence at the
inquest and Mr Meadows said health professionals at the hospital involved in the
case could seek to have their own legal representation at the hearing. He said:
"My initial impression is that this was not a case where there was no system.
There was a system. It comes down to individual clinical judgement."

Nanaaishat's brother, Abeni Momodu, took his sister to the hospital after she
began to feel unwell. Once there, no fetal heartbeat was detected, the hearing
was told.

Speaking to the M.E.N. after her death, Mr Momodu said his sister was clearly
unwell and was begging medics to remove the baby, but she was given only
paracetamol for pain.

Her condition deteriorated over a weekend and she was taken into surgery on a
Sunday night. She died hours later.

Zak Golombeck, of Manchester law firm Slater and Gordon, said the firm had been
instructed to investigate claims of clinical negligence at Pennine Acute.

review is and must be to restore confidence Golombeck He said: "We act for a
number of people who have very serious allegations to make about the care they
received at these hospitals.

"Like Nanaaishat's family, they just want answers and to find out if more should
have been done to protect their loved ones.

"The recent findings of the Care Quality Commission will be upsetting and
concerning for them, but will come as no surprise. A wholesale review is needed
and must be carried out urgently to restore public confidence and ensure the
highest standards of safety and care for patients in the future."

The trust has been approached for comment.

legal action was an Nanaaishat's was carried experts in Manchester and firm i
who serious to make care they A wholesale review is needed and must be carried
out to restore public confidence Solicitor Zak Golombeck

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: North Manchester General Hospital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2016 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Argus Weekend (South Africa)

                                  May 02, 2010
                                   E1 Edition

Botched operations cost taxpayers R1bn;
Minister slams doctors - lawsuit payouts 'unacceptable'

BYLINE:  edwin naidu

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 693 words


the country's state hospital doctors have cost taxpayers more than R1 billion in
lawsuits after botched operations - in just two years.

An investigation by Weekend Argus's sister paper The Sunday Independent, has
found that provincial health departments have had to pay out millions to
compensate patients left shattered by the negligence of public sector doctors.

Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said the amount paid out in lawsuits was
"unacceptable" and he has called for an investigation into reasons for the
increase in litigation. His spokesman Fidel Hadebe said: "We have heard about
cases in which patients have had surgical gloves, in some cases, scissors, left
inside them, both in public and private hospitals."

Motsoaledi recently told Parliament's health portfolio committee that he is
planning to launch an investigation because the crisis at provincial hospitals
had resulted in a groundswell of complaints to the national health department.

Just three weeks into the new financial year, the department has already paid
out R87 million in legal bills and has 294 cases pending. Doctors from the
KwaZulu-Natal Health Department, which has an overdraft of R3.5bn, rank as the
worst in the country - their misdeeds have resulted in the department paying
R547m in lawsuits in 2009/2010 and R376m in 2008/2009.

Doctors in the Western Cape cost the department R6m and R4m in the same years,
respectively. Mpumalanga spent R19m last year on medically-related legal bills
compared with R666 643 in 2008/2009 financial year. Last year Gauteng spent R10m
on medical legal fees compared with R2.8m in the previous year while the
North-West spent R1.7m and R11.5m. The Free State health department paid out
R577 000 in medical legal fees last year and R916 000 the year before. The
Eastern Cape paid over R8m in legal fees last year, the Northern Cape has spent
R23m in legal fees since 2007. Limpopo refused to disclose what it had paid out
in lawsuits.

Motsoaledi said doctors and nurses were ignoring regulations on patient care.

Some of the recent shocking cases of patient neglect and lawsuits include:

l In March a Wynberg woman launched a Cape High Court damages action against
Western Cape premier Helen Zille, alleging that Tygerberg Hospital staff failed
to remove a portion of her placenta after she gave birth there, resulting in her
suffering septicaemia and cardiogenic shock. She is suing the premier for R495
000, saying she is responsible for the administration of the state hospital.

l In Mpumalanga, the department paid out R14m after being sued for R27m in a
case in which a child born at the Mmamethlake hospital had medical problems from
negligence on the part of staff. The child will require permanent care.

l The father of a 15-year-old child launched a R12m claim against Alberton
neurosurgeon Jaap W Earle two weeks ago. The boy became blind following a
"minor" operation in 1999;

l In November, two-year-old Thembisa Kometsi, who was admitted to the Far East
Rand Hospital and later transferred to Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital for
burns on her hands had both legs amputated in error. A legal and disciplinary
process is underway.

l Jayanthie Devi Sonny, who gave birth to a baby with Down's Syndrome in
November 2002, is suing the KwaZulu-Natal Health Department for R6.6m, saying
she would have terminated the pregnancy if she had been informed that there was
risk of her child suffering any abnormality;

l A Mpumalanga mother who lost her baby in November, allegedly due to the
negligence of doctors and nurses at Philadelphia Hospital in Dennilton, is
claiming R550 000 from the Mpumalanga Department of Health.

l Last November a Durban man sued the KwaZulu-Natal health department for R700
000 after losing the use of his right hand in a botched operation. In December
2007 Roderick Skinner was having a benign turmour removed from his arm at
Addington Hospital when a nerve was cut. The Health Department denies the
hospital was negligent.

l In KwaZulu-Natal, at King Edward Hospital, a newborn baby who was healthy on
discharge died three days later because it had not passed meconium, which meant
that a protocol had been ignored.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CZ


                 Copyright 2010 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

St. E's Still Lacks Staff, Court Is Told;
Advocates' Lawsuit Cites Dangers to Hospital Patients and Employees

BYLINE: Henri E. Cauvin; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 903 words


St. Elizabeths, the District's public mental hospital, does not have enough
psychiatrists, psychologists or nurses to treat and supervise its patients, a
civil rights organization charged in court documents filed yesterday as part of
a lawsuit against the District.

Despite damning reports last year by federal investigators, the hospital has
failed to deal with staffing shortages that are at the root of problems ranging
from inadequate psychiatric care to unsanitary living conditions, University
Legal Services said.

For more than a year, the organization has been reviewing documents and deposing
witnesses as part of its 2005 lawsuit against the District. The examination has
bolstered its contention that the court must step in and order changes at the
Southeast Washington hospital, it said.

Patients and employees are in danger, according to University Legal Services,
which serves as a federally mandated advocate for disabled people in the
District.

In January, in a case that the plaintiffs say highlights the perils of
understaffing a psychiatric hospital, a patient who had become disruptive and
violent died when an employee tried to restrain him, according to authorities.
No charges have been filed in the death of Mark Harris, 39, who went into
cardiopulmonary arrest after the altercation.

An internal investigation by the D.C. Department of Mental Health found a number
of problems in how the incident was handled: A poorly timed shift change left
the staff short-handed; a registered nurse was not present in the area where the
incident took place; other employees were slow to respond to the initial call
for emergency assistance; oxygen tanks were locked away and not immediately
accessible, and one of the tanks that was eventually retrieved was not
functioning.

Traci L. Hughes, a spokeswoman for the D.C. attorney general's office, said the
city would respond in court to yesterday's filing and would not respond in the
media to any of the specific assertions or characterizations in the filing.

Two earlier deaths of patients led University Legal Services to begin examining
staffing levels at St Elizabeths, which has about 400 patients. In spring 2004,
a 55-year-old patient was stomped into a coma by another patient and eventually
died. Soon after that attack, a 76-year-old patient was fatally beaten by
another patient.

In its inquiry then, University Legal Services documented widespread
understaffing and excessive use of overtime, and it extracted promises for
increased staffing.

The Justice Department has echoed those concerns. Last year, it cited the two
deaths in warning that St. Elizabeths "fails to provide its patients with a
reasonably safe living environment."

University Legal Services says too little has changed.

An expert hired by the organization to evaluate the hospital concluded that St.
Elizabeths needs at least 16 more psychiatrists, 20 more psychologists and 60
additional nurses to properly care for patients in a safe, therapeutic
environment.

Instead, many patients go without meaningful treatment, according to both the
organization's expert and an expert hired by the hospital, University Legal
Services said. With too few employees and too little care, the hospital has
become a dangerous place that undermines its objectives, University Legal
Services said.

"The wards are a place of continual and unpredictable violence, creating an
atmosphere of fear that is pervasive and prevents recovery," the organization's
lawyers wrote in a 45-page memorandum filed in U.S. District Court.

In the 2006 fiscal year, the hospital recorded 261 patient-on-patient assaults,
up from 211 the previous year, and 93 patient-on-staff assaults, down from 121.
So far in the first five months of the current fiscal year, the hospital has
recorded 187 patient-on-patient assaults and 69 patient-on-staff assaults.

When he took office in January, Mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) installed a new chief
operating officer at St. Elizabeths, tapping the head of the Department of
Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, Patrick Canavan, for another difficult
assignment. But he kept on the director of the Department of Mental Health,
Stephen T. Baron, who had been named to the job only last summer.

Mary Nell Clark, one of the attorneys suing the District, said that she has been
encouraged by the efforts of Canavan and Baron but that until the new leaders
have the funds they need to hire more people, the problems will persist.

"We have tremendous hope for the two of them, but they have to have the
resources of the Fenty administration, the D.C. Council and the community to
make this a humane place where people can heal," Clark said.

This newest round of criticism comes as the District wrestles with how it will
care for the mentally ill in years to come. Plans call for St. Elizabeths to
have a new home by 2009 after years of crumbling infrastructure. But it will be
smallerand will house fewer patients, as the city continues its effort to
provide more care out in the community for the mentally ill population.

Advocates have welcomed the prospect of more community-based care and the
possibility that more St. Elizabeths patients will eventually be able to return
to the community and receive quality care.

But for that day to come, Clark said, St. Elizabeths has to do its job right.

"We want people in the community, but they need a place when they're in crisis
where they can recover," Clark said.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Odessa American (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 26, 2009 Friday

Hospital trustee criminal assault case: Further legal action by board
unnecessary after Torres' complies

BYLINE: Matthew Mcgowan, Odessa American, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


Jun. 26--About six weeks after Ector County Hospital District trustee Abraham
Torres turned himself in to police on misdemeanor charges in connection to
reportedly assaulting the board's secretary, a plea bargain has yet to be
reached and the case could go to trial.

Any lingering legal issues between Torres and the hospital board, however, have
been resolved after he yielded to the board's threat to take legal action
forcing the trustee to submit the paperwork at the heart of the dispute.

Following the incident, the board convened for a special meeting on May 7 to
discuss Torres' actions and officially admonished the local real estate business
owner for allegedly hitting Delma Marin, then the board's secretary, with a
"closed fist" when she and another hospital employee went to his office to pick
up application paperwork for federal funding, according to Marin's written
complaint.

After Marin pressed charges, police said, Torres turned himself in to the Ector
County Sheriff's Office and posted bond.

During its special meeting on May 7, the board also threatened to take legal
action if Torres persisted in his refusal to submit the paperwork, which
officials said included routine personal information all board members must fill
out to apply for federal reimbursement.

Since the meeting, hospital attorney Richard Buck said, Torres has filed the
paperwork and complied with the board's requests, settling any possible further
action by the hospital district.

"We got that resolved," Buck said. "He voluntarily furnished that, and we
appreciate it."

As for the criminal case, Ector County Attorney Cindy Weir-Nutter said, a deal
could be reached at any time that keeps the case from going to court.

As to when or if the case will actually see a courtroom, Weir-Nutter said, it's
"really hard to tell at this point."

If convicted, she said, Torres could face up to a $4,000 fine and no more than a
year imprisonment.

Torres declined comment, directing press inquiries to his attorney.

"I just can't comment about anything right now," Torres said. "I wish I could,
but I just can't."

Repeated attempts by the OA to reach Torres' attorney, Steve Brannan, have
yielded no results.

Marin, who left her job at Medical Center Hospital shortly after filing charges
against Torres, could not be reached for comment.

To see more of the Odessa American, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.oaoa.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Odessa American, Texas Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090626-OD-Hospital-trustee-criminal-assault-case-0626

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OD


                         Copyright 2009 Odessa American


                              423 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            March 23, 2017 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mother's anger over legal fight for settlement after son's death

BYLINE: Rod Minchin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 648 words


THE mother of a young boy who died at a scandal-hit children's ward has spoken
of her anger at hospital bosses for what she described as an 18-month legal
battle. Faye Valentine, 32, from Cardiff, criticised University Hospitals
Bristol NHS Foundation Trust for insensitivity and putting the family through
extra stress.

Her son Luke Jenkins died in 2012 aged seven after undergoing surgery at Bristol
Children's Hospital to correct a congenital heart defect.

About 10 families are believed to be taking legal action against the trust,
including seven whose children died following treatment on Ward 32.

Last year, a damning Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman report branded
Luke's post-operative care and treatment at the hospital as a "service failure".

The conclusions went further than the Bristol Review carried out by NHS England
into cardiac services at the hospital.

Ms Valentine and her partner Stephen Jenkins, 35, from St Mellons, launched
legal action against the trust and a settlement was agreed at the High Court in
London yesterday.

The mother-of-four said the family's solicitor had made an offer to settle out
of court for £100,000 18 months ago, which the trust declined.

"About five weeks ago they offered us £3,000 to settle the case.

"We said no, we're going to court," she said.

"We didn't realise that in the meantime this offer stays on the table and two
weeks later they said they would accept this.

"In the meantime, we had written our statements for the High Court and they
pulled out a week before they were due to be submitted.

"They made us go through all of that and then pulled out and said they were
settling the case and didn't want to take it any further."

Ms Valentine said they had no choice but to settle out of court as otherwise
they faced a large legal bill had they continued. They will use the settlement
to set up a trust fund for their other children.

"They are not making an admission of liability and accepting they caused
anything," she said.

"Ultimately, it has been about Luke but lately it has turned into a legal battle
and everything seems to be forgetting the real reason behind it - what happened
to Luke.

"We've had to fight for five years for the truth.

"We wanted that day in court but unfortunately it is out of our hands now. It
has come as a shock because we were not expecting it at all.

"They have put us through an extra 18 months of stress making us relive it.

"We've lost Luke and had to go through five years of a battle for them to just
turn around and settle. It's just so insensitive.

"We have never done this for the money. Ultimately it will be for the
children's' future.

"How can you put a price on what happened? It will never end for us and we will
never forget what happened to Luke."

Trust chief executive Robert Woolley said: "The care Luke received has been
subject to several independent, expert reviews - by the Avon Coroner, the
Independent Review of Children's Cardiac Services in Bristol and the
Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman - none of which showed that we caused
his death.

"We fully accept, however, that there were failings in the care and treatment we
gave him and we also accept that, after his death, we compounded the pain and
grief of his family by giving incorrect and incomplete information in response
to their complaint.

"We are deeply sorry for everything we got wrong and we have apologised to
Luke's parents for letting them down so badly.

"This settlement agreement recognises the benefit of avoiding further distress
to Luke's family.

"We developed a comprehensive action plan to address the failings identified by
the Ombudsman and we have shared this with Luke's family, together with evidence
of its implementation.

"Our progress in delivering the recommendations of the Independent Review of
Children's Cardiac Services in Bristol is reported in the public meetings of the
trust board."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: <B Luke's parents Steve Jenkins and Faye ValentineLuke Jenkins died at
The University Hospital, Bristol, after suffering from cardiac problems

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2017 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             October 5, 2015 Monday

Indrani's forensic report is final, clarifies Dr Lahane

BYLINE: Santosh Andhale

LENGTH: 439  words


Q & A Dr TP Lahane

Two conflicting reports about the health of Indrani Mukherjea, prime accused in
the sensational Sheena Bora murder case, had sent the media into a tizzy. The
Kalina Forensic Science Laboratory (KFSL) report, submitted to the Maharashtra
government, concluded that Indrani's blood, urine and stomach wash tested
negative for any poisonous substance.

Dr TP Lahane, Dean of J J Hospital, however, had claimed that Indrani's urine
sample sent to the Hinduja hospital tested positive for psychoactive drugs. Now
talking to dna's Santosh Andhale, Dr Lahane clarifies that Hinduja hospital had
given a preliminary report, while the KFSL report is final. Edited excerpts:

Why was a report sought from both KFSL and the Hinduja hospital?

It is not the first case wherein we sent samples to a private hospital. In
several medico-legal cases, we send the investigation report to the Hinduja
hospital, because its laboratory is now recognised by the National Accreditation
Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). We get a report faster,
which help us to decide the treatment sooner.

Why were the two reports different?

I agree there were two different reports, but the Hinduja hospital had given a
preliminary report while FSL report was final. The FSL had done the Gas
Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) test, an analytical method that
combines the features of two techniques to identify substances in a test sample.
Hinduja hospital gave a report based on immunoassay test, a biochemical test
that measures the presence or concentration of a macromolecule in a solution
through the use of an antibody or immunoglobulin. These two are different
methods of investigation. A forensic test, however, is more authentic and
reliable, and we have accepted the FSL findings. We treated Indrani according to
the clinical findings, and she is responding to it.

Did the government or the police department ask for two reports?

No, there is no interference in the medical treatment or decisions. Whatever
happens in such a medico-legal case, we always keep the authorities informed.
There is no communication gap.

What is the standard protocol applied in medico-legal cases?

Once a medico-legal case related patient is brought to the hospital, the samples
are sent to the police station concerned and then to the FSL. At the same time,
if a clinician feels that a report is needed immediate, the sample is also sent
to a private laboratory.

Has any body from family contacted you to enquire about Indrani's health?

No. No family member has approached me to enquire about her health.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            April 6, 2011 Wednesday
                               N-j Final Edition

Lawyer: Merger damages may cost millions

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 799  words

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH


NEW SMYRNA BEACH -- Damages from legal advice that led to Sunshine Law
violations and the breakup of the merger between Bert Fish Medical Center and
Adventist Health System could reach into the tens of millions of dollars, an
attorney said Tuesday night.

The toll from the voided merger continued to be added up Tuesday as the
Southeast Volusia Hospital District board took its first formal steps to take
back the New Smyrna Beach hospital it last controlled June 29.

At one point in the meeting, the board interviewed representatives of four law
firms and a mediator as it explores the possibility of recovering damages caused
by the merger, as legal bills continue to mount.

The merger last year prompted a lawsuit from the Bert Fish Foundation, a
philanthropic organization that had given the hospital to the public hospital
district in 1966. The foundation sued after the merger, arguing the 21 board
meetings over 16 months that led to it were closed to the public in violation of
the state's Sunshine Law.

After a four-day trial, Circuit Judge Richard Graham ruled Feb. 24 the
violations couldn't be overcome in a subsequent do-over of the merger.

He ordered a plan be drawn up for how the hospital would be returned to public
control, overseen by the Southeast Volusia Hospital District board as it was
before the merger.

The board's longtime attorney, Jim Heekin, admitted in court during the trial
that the district had a potential malpractice claim against him for wrongly
advising board members to close the merger talks to the public.

So far, the district's legal bills are projected to reach more than $1 million
because of the court case.

The district also should expect to pay more legal bills from plaintiff Bert Fish
Foundation's legal costs, board members have been advised.

And then there's the amount that Bert Fish might be out from what it was going
to receive from Adventist Health.

The health care giant had agreed to back more than $80 million in capital and
investment costs if hospital operations didn't produce that money.

They might not be able to get that amount next time" the hospital looks for a
partner, said Bill Chanfrau Jr., representing the Daytona Beach firm, Chanfrau &
Chanfrau, one of the firms offering to represent the district to recover
damages.

The district board is subject to the Sunshine Law because it levies the taxes
that support indigent care at Bert Fish Medical Center on property owners in
Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of Port Orange.

Members are appointed by the governor.

The June 30 merger also made the seven appointees of the Southeast Volusia
Hospital District members of the private hospital board alongside Adventist
Health executives.

On Tuesday, in the first direct action concerning the hospital's court-ordered
separation from the nonprofit health care giant, the board unanimously agreed
with its attorney's advice Tuesday that he compose letters for each of them
resigning from the private hospital board.

We need to be as clean as a whistle here," said Darryl Bloodworth, an Orlando
attorney.

I do believe it would be best if you resign from the (private) hospital board.
It would avoid any appearance of impropriety."

There was no discussion as the board unanimously agreed the resignation letters
should be drawn up.

As management from Adventist Health exits from the 112-bed hospital, the
separating partners will have to settle a number of outstanding issues.

To do that, the board agreed to offer a contract to Community Health Corp., a
Plano, Texas-based nonprofit, to act as a consultant on its behalf.

Among the eight proposals board received from hospital management consultants,
Community Health was the only nonprofit and the least expensive of the
consulting services comprised of more than just one person.

The company estimated its services would cost the district $400,000, compared
with the top estimate of $1.25 million from Quantum Health Resources, a
Houston-based company.

Neither price includes the cost of a chief executive officer, who may not be
needed.

The board unanimously directed Bloodworth to begin negotiations with Community
Health and line up American Healthcare Solutions as a possible back-up.

The Pittsburgh-based management company estimated its services would cost the
district $975,000, the second-lowest estimate among the consultants with more
than one person.

Consensus emerged quickly Tuesday night to select Community Health.

They seem to have the knowledge we need and they are not for profit," district
board member Tom DeSimone of New Smyrna Beach said.

We need a company, not one man," said the Rev. John Marsh, an Edgewater board
member.

The board likely will choose a legal firm or mediator at its 5 p.m. meeting
Thursday at New Smyrna Beach Regional Library, 1001 S. Dixie Freeway.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              426 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 7:08 AM GMT

Peckham man in critical condition in hospital after taking legal high 'Spice'

BYLINE: HANNAH AL-OTHMAN

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 288 words


A man is fighting for his life in hospital after taking the synthetic cannabis
drug 'Spice'.

He was taken to hospital just before 7pm on Thursday, October 29, where he is
receiving medical treatment, and is said to bein a critical but stable
condition.

Officers are now warning anyone who has taken the drug to seek medical
attention, and police are urging anyone

who may have been offered the drug to come forward.

Two other men who are

believed to have ingested the drug have also been taken to hospital.

Police were called at around 9.40pmon the same day,after receiving reports thata
man washaving a 'fit' in Staffordshire Street, Peckham.

The man, whois in his late 20s,told officers that he had taken the legal high
after being offered it for free on the street.

Read more

Laughing gas canisters seized in Shoreditch as proposed 'legal highs'

Networking group aims to help women reach legal high in City

Music festival-goers urged to steer clear of legal highs after death

Legal highs deaths 'over-reported'

EXCLUSIVE: Legal highs 'more dangerous' than class A drugs like

He was taken by

the London Ambulance Service (LAS) to a south London hospital.

Around tenminutes laterpolice were called to Peckham High Street, where a second
man was showing signs of similar symptoms.

The man, whois believed to have also taken the drugwas taken by the LAS to a
south London hospital, and later discharged himself.

Anyone with information regarding the supply of 'Spice' is asked to contact
police via 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                Western Gazette

                             May 14, 2015 Thursday

Frightening effects of taking legal highs

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 575  words


A MAN with both feet on the ground had to be rescued from clinging to a wall on
West Hendford thinking he was 1,000 feet up after taking a so-called legal high.

Police are warning users and dealers of new psychoactive substances (NPS) to
think twice about taking the narcotics due to the strain it puts on the
emergency services which have to pick up the pieces afterwards.

They have revealed they are treating the so-called legal highs as unknown
substances until the narcotic's true ingredients are established by a
laboratory.

Sergeant Rich Barnett of Yeovil police said: "If we find someone with legal
highs we will look to seize the substances using our power to arrest them with
supplying or possession of drugs.

"It will be up to a laboratory to determine whether it is an unlawful substance
or whether - even if it is a legal substance - there are some ingredients in
there which are unknown to the supplier that could fall under the Misuse of
Drugs Act."

Legal highs that are actually legal contain one or more chemical substances
which produce similar effects to illegal drugs. However, many are not yet
controlled under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971.

Sergeant Barnett added that aside from the obvious dangers of inhaling an
unknown substance, there could also be serious knock-on consequences for other
members of the community.

He said: "There is also the public safety side of it, perhaps someone who has
taken something comes into contact with a member of the public and is violent
towards them, or is violent towards the ambulance crews that has to deal with
them.

"Then there is the hospital staff that then has to care for them and the police
officers that have to support them.

"It is not unusual for someone who has had a reaction to drugs being in hospital
for a couple of days, and it is not unusual for a police officer to have to stay
in hospital to ensure they are not a threat to hospital staff. This puts an
increasing demand on us and takes away our capability to help other victims of
crime.

"The bottom line is that legal highs are under scrutiny because the true
ingredients are not known to the supplier and only the manufacturer.

"I dare say a fair few are not bothered if they are overstepping the mark if
they are putting in substances under the Misuse of Drugs Act."

Sergeant Pete Paskin of Yeovil police echoed Sergeant Barnett's call for people
not to run the risk of taking the narcotics. He said: "A few weeks ago we had an
incident of a gent clinging to a wall on West Hendford thinking he was 1,000
feet above the ground. That took two police crews and an ambulance to rescue
him. Those resources could be better deployed elsewhere."

He explained there was no specific legislation in place to directly cover NPS
and officers were limited to the powers they could exert. But he added the force
was working with Braddicks in Yeovil who had scaled back on the substances they
were selling as a result of discussions.

"More importantly for people thinking about taking NPS, it is dangerous," he
said. "You don't know what is in them - they cause people to do very strange
things. It is not regulated at all. They do have warnings on them that say not
for human consumption.

"The legislation to control them properly will come in, but it will take time.
We are looking forward to having that legislation in place. We have been wanting
more legislation for years and the positive news is that there is cross-party
support for it."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: police warning: Sergeant Rich Barnett outside Yeovil District Hospital.
He says the emergency services are left to pick up the pieces from legal highs
gone wrong.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              428 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Melton Leader

                            November 3, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Melton Edition

Beacon of justice

BYLINE: Grant McArthur and Brigid O'Connell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 477  words


Families seek legal advice as board is sacked, Grant McArthur and Brigid
O'Connell report A FORTNIGHT before she died in May, Lynne Nagy's biggest wish
was to stop the doctor she held responsible for her dire situation - Dr Surinder
Parhar.

After a legal battle, the mum, 63, had just reached an out-of-court agreement
with Djerriwarrh Health Services over the care, or alleged lack of, she received
from its director of obstetrics.

When she died on Mother's Day, Mrs Nagy remained unaware- secret investigations
were just starting to lift the lid on a cluster of baby deaths in Dr Parhar's
maternity- unit at Bacchus Marsh and Melton Regional Hospital, or just how many
others had also suffered.

"I'd love to see him come back here with everything else he has done with these
babies," Mrs Nagy's devastated widower Ray Nagy (pictured) said this week.

"She wanted him struck off. She wasn't worried about anything else, she just
didn't want him to be able to treat anyone else.

"When it was settled I went back to the hospital and all Lynne asked was, 'Is he
struck off?' "That was all she wanted, she just wanted him to not be able to do
this to anyone else.

"To this day I still don't know how I got her - she is just way above my league
and that is why this is so hard." Suffering bleeding in 2010, Mrs Nagy's GP
referred her to Bacchus Marsh hospital to see a specialist for a hysterectomy
after tests showed things weren't right.

In the 18-month treatment she received from Dr Parhar that followed, Mrs Nagy
didn't receive the hysterectomy that might have saved her, nor did the
specialist ever diagnose the endometrial cancer that was killing her.

By the time another specialist realised what was behind her constant bleeding,
the cancer was a stage three disease and little could be done.

While she focused her attention- on trying to beat the disease, Mrs Nagy also
began legal action against Dr Parhar's hospital.

When the Sunday Herald Sun revealed Dr Parhar had handed in his medical
registration after being at the centre of a scandal over seven avoidable infant
deaths at the hospital, Mr Nagy was further devastated, though not surprised.

The Nagy family is not alone in seeking legal action.

Maurice Blackburn principal in medical negligence Dimitra Dubrow said the firm
had received 50 calls from people regarding the hospital investigation-. Slater
and Gordon principal lawyer Anne Shortall said they had also received numerous
calls.

Both firms said they were seeking compensation for pain, suffering and damages,
but ultimately clients wanted to see the hospital and staff held accountable.

"These people are traumatised and they want radical changes made at the hospital
so this won't happen to anyone else," Ms Shortall said.Complaints about
treatment received at the hospital can be lodged with the Office of the Health
Services Commissioner on 1300 582 113.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Melton Leader


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            November 26, 2010 Friday
                                 Mersey Edition

City figures plead for end to Royal legal bid

BYLINE: Liza Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 450 words


LEADING business figures last night pleaded with campaigners to drop a legal
challenge threatening the new pounds 451m Royal Liverpool Hospital.

The five men, including Liverpool Chamber of Commerce chief executive Jack
Stopforth and Rod Holmes, chairman of The Mersey Partnership, wrote to the Daily
Post to say the rebuilt hospital could be the key to the city's long-term
economic revival.

They said failure to build a biocampus next to the hospital could result in the
loss of tens of thousands of new jobs in the bio-science, construction and
healSh sectors.

The Daily Post revealed last week how the hospital project was in doubt.

A High Court judgment threw out a bid by Keep Our NHS Public campaigner Sam
Semoff to take the plans to a judicial review.

But he appealed immediately, filing for an oral hearing.

Chiefs said this delay could make companies bidding to build the project
nervous, putting it in jeopardy.

But Mr Semoff is convinced the use of Private Finance Initiative cash to build
the hospital will leave Merseyside's health service in crippling debt for years
to come. He said this will have a detrimental effect on future services.

In a direct plea to Mr Semoff and his supporters, the letter said: "We call on
those sponsoring the ongoing legal challenge to not jeopardise the city's
economic future at a time when our recovery could be threatened by large-scale
cuts in public sector spending and employment.

"The legal challenge threatens not only a vitally important new hospital but
also puts at risk tens of thousands of new jobs in construction, research and
bio-science. There are no other funding or deliverable mechanisms available."

The biocampus, set to be built next to the hospital, could generate pounds 1bn
in 10 years, but without the new Royal it will not happen.

It aims to build on the city's world-class research facilities at Liverpool
University, the Royal and the School of Tropical Medicine to establish Liverpool
as a leading international centre for research.

Mr Stopforth and Mr Holmes's names were joined by Max Steinberg, chief executive
of Liverpool Vision; John Flamson, director of strategic partnerships and
development at Liverpool University; and Frank McKenna, chairman of Downtown
Liverpool In Business. Mr Semoff said: "If these people are willing to put up
the half a billion pounds to cover the cost of PFI over the next 30 years, I
will drop the suit.

"They are taking a very short-term view. Are they not aware of the damage PFI
could do to our future healthcare system? "I have had countless letters of
support - there is a whole group of people fighting for this.

"The debt payments could pay for more frontline care."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Sam Semoff Clouded in doubt: an artist's impression of the new Royal
Liverpool Hospital, with the main hospital to the right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              July 29, 2013 Monday

LICH legal battle have your head spinning? Let The Explainer explain

LENGTH: 586  words


Judges have issued multiple court orders demanding the state keep Long Island
College Hospital functioning like it was before officials decided to shutter it
after 155 years in operation. Managers of the Cobble Hill institution insist
that they have followed those orders to the letter, but hospital advocates say
that the state has reduced the hospital to a shell of its former self - and
broken the law in the process. What is going on in court and what does it mean
for the hobbled Brooklyn health care facility? The Explainer breaks it down:


What, exactly, are the courts demanding?
Judges have issued three restraining orders in recent weeks that prohibit the
state from taking steps to close the hospital until lawsuits filed by the New
York State Nurses Association, a union representing hospital nurses, and public
advocate and mayoral hopeful Bill DeBlasio are settled.
If the court says the state cannot do anything to close the hospital, how could
the state divert ambulances and stop admitting patients?
Appeals. Last month, a state Supreme Court judge said that the state is breaking
the law by closing the hospital to ambulances and new overnight patients. But
the state has appealed that decision, as it has the right to do. Right now, the
order DeBlasio obtained has been thrown out and enforcement of the other two has
been suspended until at least Aug. 7, when another contempt hearing is
scheduled.
Okay, so it sounds like the hospital is in legal limbo. What does that mean for
would-be patients and the sick people still inside?
Last week, appeals Judge Robert Miller told state officials that they have to
maintain hospital service at current levels. That means no ambulances and no
overnight admissions, but also no patient transfers and no emergency room
closure. In other words: if you cut yourself while chopping vegetables, you can
take a cab to the emergency room and get stitched up. But if, say, you fracture
your skull rock climbing, an ambulance would have to deliver you to another
emergency room. As for the 10-or-so patients still inside, the hospital is
supposed to continue treating them until they are ready for discharge. However,
one elderly patient disappeared last week under mysterious circumstances.
If the state closes the hospital when judges say it should not, what are the
consequences? Could anyone end up in jail?
That is extremely unlikely. If judges continue to reprimand the state for moving
to close the hospital, the state agencies responsible could face escalating
fines. This legal scenario played out over the course of 25 years with the
city's Department of Homeless Services, which faced a barrage of lawsuits, court
orders, and contempt rulings for failing to address conditions at homeless
shelters. Homeless Services agreed to sweeping new guidelines in 2008 only after
paying out millions in court-ordered fines.

What does all this mean for Long Island College Hospital?
It is going condo. The state, with Gov. Cuomo's blessing, has done everything to
close the hospital short of bussing out the remaining patients and firing the
staff. The bottom line is that a court cannot make the money appear in state
budgets so, unless state lawmakers change their minds in a hurry, the hospital's
days are numbered. Even if a restraining order remains in effect, state
officials could decide that a fine is a necessary evil that will eventually lead
to a probable $500 million real estate payday it gets when it sells the land the
hospital sits on to developers.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                          February 27, 2008 Wednesday

Contract Win Brings Health Rolefor Ward Hadaway

BYLINE: Iain Laing

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 352 words


LAW firm Ward Hadaway will be providing advice on a proposed new £400m hospital
on Teesside after its latest contract win.

The Newcastle-based firm has been chosen by North Tees and Hartlepool NHS
Foundation Trust to provide external legal advice on, among  other things, all
commercial projects and property matters for the next three years. The
appointment was made following a competitive tender.

Melanie Pears, partner and head of public sector at Ward Hadaway, said: "This is
fantastic news. North Tees  and Hartlepool NHS Foundation  Trust is a dynamic
organisation and we are thrilled to be working with them.

"We are very pleased to be able to offer all our skills, experience and
capabilities to the Trust to ensure that the community it serves gets the best
possible health services."

One of the major projects on which Ward Hadaway will advise North Tees and
Hartlepool is the recommend- ation for a new hospital to serve people living in
Hartlepool, Stockton, Easington and parts of Sedgefield.

Chief executive of North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust Alan Foster
said: "We're pleased to have Ward Hadaway working with us on the new hospital. A
project of this size is a major undertaking and it's imperative that we have the
best legal advice available as we go through the process of achieving our
vision."

The three-year agreement to assist the Trust with the majority of its legal
needs is the latest in a series of major contracts Ward Hadaway has secured in
the health and public sectors.

Last year, it was appointed as sole external legal adviser to County Durham and
Darlington NHS Foundation Trust and as joint external legal advisor to
Middlesbrough, Darlington, Hartlepool, Redcar and Cleveland and Stockton
councils for  five years.

In December, Ward Hadaway also helped Tees Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Trust
achieve a successful financial close on a pioneering £75m PFI scheme to replace
St Luke's Hospital in Middlesbrough.

The project will see a new 312-bed mental health facility built next to the
existing hospital in Marton Road. Ward Hadaway now represents more than 50 NHS
clients.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              432 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday

Elderly 'left in hospital to protect family inheritance'

BYLINE: Paul Cullen

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 428 words


Families are leaving elderly relatives in hospital beds rather than sending them
to a nursing home in order to protect their inheritance, the HSE's senior legal
adviser has claimed.

In some cases, according to HSE head of legal services Eunice O'Raw, the wider
family wants to avoid having the patient's assets used to fund a nursing home
place through the Fair Deal scheme.

In addition, many farming families keep relatives in hospital in order to avoid
financial penalties, she told HSE director general Tony O'Brien in an email last
May.

Farming families incur penalties in the next generation if the farm has not been
managed by that generation for more than two years. "Keeping the first
generation in a hospital bed away from the farm avoids these penalties," she
said.

Trespassing

In a separate email, Ms O'Raw referred to a woman in her 40s who has stayed in a
private hospital bed in the public system for the past four years without
paying. The woman no longer needed hospital services, she said.

Last November, the HSE was criticised after the leaking of a memo by Ms O'Raw
advising staff how to remove "trespassing" patients who refuse to give up their
beds.

The memo, which suggested nurses use "minimum force" to remove such patients,
was withdrawn after being heavily criticised by Minister for Health Simon
Harris, among others.

Mr O'Brien apologised for any concern caused, but insisted the legal advice the
memo contained did not reflect general policy.

At the time, Mr O'Brien said it was "very rare" for patients to refuse to move
out of a hospital bed.

Legal opinion

However, according to new documents sought under Freedom of Information
following the November controversy, Ms O'Raw said she had received "very many
queries" from hospitals on dealing with such issues.

In the midlands, she noted, the HSE makes a significant number of applications
for wardship for patients who are in beds they no longer require. "The same
pattern is not evident to the same extent elsewhere."

The legal opinion obtained by the HSE was that those who refuse to leave
hospital beds they no longer need "are committing a trespass and steps may be
taken to have them moved on".

Ms O'Raw also invoked article 40.3.2 of the Constitution, saying there was a
potential conflict between a well patient occupying a bed and the constitutional
right to life of another patient. "If there is a conflict between the medical
needs of other patients that are identifiable as urgent, the overstaying patient
would have to be moved to vindicate the rights of the acutely ill person."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           September 11, 2006 Monday

MP's legal fight to save hospital

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 403 words


Patients are being urged to join a legal challenge to save facilities at an East
Riding hospital.

Beverley and Holderness MP Graham Stuart is seeking a High Court injunction to
prevent the closure of the inpatient ward at Hornsea Cottage Hospital.

The 12 beds in the ward are used for people recovering from surgery, suffering
from terminal  illnesses or in need of long-term medical care.

But Yorkshire Wolds and Coast Primary Care Trust (PCT) has announced it will
close the ward on October 1. It said the decision was made to protect patients
at a time when staffing levels were low.

It is due to be reviewed in March.

Mr Stuart said: "What we need in order to get funding for our challenge is a
resident who uses the services and is eligible for legal aid.

"Ideally, we want a proven user of Hornsea Cottage Hospital.

"I  would also like to hear from anyone who fears a decision will affect them
personally, so  I can make the best possible case on behalf of everyone who uses
that service."

Mr Stuart said he was making the legal challenge on the basis the public were
not consulted about the move.

Mr Stuart said: "The trust is behaving illegally and illogically."

Pensioner Edward Clark, of Ashcourt Drive, Hornsea, was treated in the inpatient
ward for high blood pressure and heart problems.

He said: "It took me by surprise when I heard they were going to close the ward.
I've had wonderful treatment there. When I was in there last time my neighbour
would visit and bring me my mail in the mornings and tell me the news so I  was
in touch.

"We need to get geared up again now and do something about it. I'm highly
disappointed with the PCT."

East Riding Council's NHS overview and scrutiny committee will be discussing the
decision at its meeting at County Hall, Beverley, tomorrow.

Anyone who would have been admitted to the inpatient ward at Hornsea will
instead have to be treated at home or at another hospital. The trust has
announced it will open three more beds at Withernsea Hospital and the Macmillan
Wolds Unit at Bridlington.

The Mail launched its Hands Off Our Hospitals campaign when the PCT launched a
review of its four community hospitals - in Hornsea, Withernsea, Bridlington and
Driffield - in December 2004.

Any patient who wants to support Mr Stuart's legal challenge should call  his
office on (01482) 679687.

j.howell@hdmp.co.uk

Links

National Health Service

www.nhs.uk

Hornsea Town Council

www.hornsea.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                October 19, 2006

Stolen bones: law firm launches action

LENGTH: 200 words


A SHEFFIELD law firm is launching legal action on behalf of UK hospital patients
who may have received stolen bones - including parts taken from the body of
American broadcaster Alistair Cooke.

As many as 25 hospitals including the Northern General Hospital and Doncaster
Royal Infirmary, took delivery of bones bought by a British company, which
provides tissue and body parts to NHS and private British hospitals, imported
from an American company called Biomedical Tissue Services.

Police in New York are investigating claims the American firm took tissue and
bones without the consent of dead people's next of kin, and sold it for
operations to hospitals.

Deliveries could have included bone stolen from the body of veteran broadcaster
Alistair Cooke who died aged 95 in 2004.

Both the Northern General Hospital and Doncaster Royal Infirmary have made it
clear they did not know the bone was stolen. The bone was returned and not used
to treat patients.

Now Sheffield-based solicitors Irwin Mitchell are launching legal action on
behalf of other patients elsewhere in the country.

Clive Garner, a partner said: At present we do not know just how many people
have been treated with these bone products."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 1, 2003, Saturday

Scotland

SECTION: Features; The Hospital Consultants Guide 16

LENGTH: 3115 words


Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

GEORGE PATRICK ASHCROFT (1981)

Special interest: Joint replacement

Other NHS: Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen

JAMES PETER BIDWELL (1989)

Specialist area: Arthroscopic knee surgery; Joint replacement and revision;
Trauma surgery; General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Knee ligament reconstruction; Hip and knee replacement and
revision surgery; Knee sports injuries; Medico-legal work

Other NHS: Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen; Kincardine Community Hospital, Stonehaven

Private: BMI Albyn Hospital, Aberdeen

ROBERT ANDREW DUTHIE (1989)

Special interest: Joint revision surgery; Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen

JAMES DOUGLAS HUTCHISON (1979)

Merit award: A 2002

ALAN JOHN JOHNSTONE (1986)

Other NHS: Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen

Ayr Hospital

DAVID FRANKLIN LARGE (1978)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Hip replacement and revision
surgery; Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

Private: Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

ANDREW GORDON MUIRHEAD (1977)

HAMISH ELDER POTTS (1976)

PETER SCOTT RAE (1972)

Special interest: Knee surgery; Hand surgery

Private: Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

KENNETH ANDREW YOUNG (1990)

Specialist area: Lower limb surgery; Hip replacement and revision surgery;
Arthroscopic surgery; Foot and ankle surgery

Special interest: Joint replacement and revision surgery

Private: Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr; BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Borders General Hospital, Melrose

CHARLES BRIAN CLOWES (1969)

Special interest: Hip replacement; Knee replacement

WILLIAM GEORGE DENNYSON (1966)

JOHN EDWARD PHILLIPS (1973)

CHRISTOPHER HENRICUS TIEMESSEN (1983)

Special interest: Arthroscopic surgery; Joint replacement

Crosshouse Hospital, Kilmarnock

BRIAN FITZGERALD (1969)

Special interest: Knee surgery; Hip and knee revision surgery; Joint revision
surgery

Private: Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr; BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow;
Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

MICHAEL PATRICK FOXWORTHY (1986)

IAIN MACKAY (1971)

CALUM MACLEOD BAIRD MACLEOD (1988)

RACHEL MARIAN SHORT (1986)

GAVIN ROBERT TAIT (1980)

Specialist area: Shoulder surgery; Knee surgery; Medico-legal work

Special interest: Arthroscopic surgery; Knee replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

Dr Gray's Hospital, Elgin

DAVID JOHN SCOTT ANDERSON (1979)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Arthroscopic knee surgery; Joint
replacement; Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

JOHANNIS GERARD KILIAN (1988)

MARTHINUS FREDERIK ROOS (1978)

Dumfries and Galloway Royal Infirmary, Dumfries

PATRICIA STEPHANIE COSTIGAN (1981)

Specialist area: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

RUPERT DAVID FERDINAND (1991)

IAN PAUL MCLEAN (1987)

Specialist area: Lower limb surgery; Trauma surgery

Special interest: Hip and knee replacement

Other NHS: Garrick Hospital, Stranraer

GAVIN ANTHONY NIMON (1990)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Upper limb surgery; Hand surgery; Sports injuries

Other NHS: Newton Stewart Hospital

Private: Abbey Caldew Hospital, Carlisle; Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

ANDREW CHESTER OGDEN (1969)

Other NHS: Castle Douglas Hospital

ANDREWS SATKUNAM RATNAM (1975)

Special interest: Trauma surgery; Arthroscopic knee surgery; Foot and ankle
surgery

Other NHS: Newton Stewart Hospital

Falkirk & District Royal Infirmary, Falkirk

JOHN MARIUS DE LEEUW (1985)

Specialist area: Joint replacement and revision; Arthroscopic knee surgery; Foot
and ankle surgery; Trauma surgery

Special interest: Hip and knee replacement and revision surgery; Arthroscopic
surgery; Medico-legal work

Other NHS: Stirling Royal Infirmary

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling; BUPA Murrayfield Hospital
Edinburgh

FRANS DENOLF (1977)

Special interest: Knee surgery; Hip surgery

JAMES RICHARD LINDSAY (1972)

Specialist area: Hand surgery; Upper limb surgery; Medico-legal work

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

JOHN BENEDICT MURRAY (1993)

Glasgow Royal Infirmary

MARK JOHN GRAHAM BLYTH (1990)

ROLAND RALPH INGRAM (1981)

Specialist area: Hip replacement; Knee replacement; Hip revision surgery

IAN GEORGE KELLY (1972)

Specialist area: Shoulder surgery

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow, Glasgow

Merit award: A 2001

ANDREW WILLIAM GEORGE KINNINMONTH (1977)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Lower limb surgery

Other NHS: Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow

LECH ADAM RYMASZEWSKI (1976)

Special interest: Elbow surgery

Other NHS: Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow

Merit award: B 2001

CHINNASAMY SENTHILKUMAR (1986)

ROBERT GAVIN SIMPSON (1967)

IAN GEORGE STOTHER (1970)

Specialist area: Knee surgery

Private: Nuffield Hospital Harrogate

Merit award: A 1998

EUGENE FREDERICK WHEELWRIGHT (1980)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery

Special interest: Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

Hairmyres Hospital, Glasgow

ALBERTO CARLO PAUL GREGORI (1982)

Specialist area: Knee replacement; Trauma surgery; Medico-legal work

Special interest: Knee surgery

PARAPPALLICHIRAYIL JOSEPH JOHN (1972)

Special interest: Hand surgery; Upper limb surgery; Arthroscopic surgery; Joint
replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; HCI International Medical Centre,
Clydebank; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

WALTER DICK NEWTON (1970)

Inverclyde Royal Hospital, Greenock

STEVEN JOHN BARNES (1983)

Specialist area: Hand and wrist surgery; Elbow surgery; Shoulder surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

ANDREW MARTIN CHAPPELL (1989)

MICHAEL PASQUALE DI PAOLA (1971)

Specialist area: Lumbar spine surgery

Special interest: Lumbar spine disorders; Hip and knee replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

GERALD MCGARRITY (1969)

Specialist area: Major joint replacement; Medico-legal work

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

ROBERT MARTIN VENNER (1968)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Monklands Hospital, Airdrie

DIANE BRAMLEY (1986)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

ALEXANDER CRAIG WILLEM CAMPBELL (1985)

IAN MCLEOD (1987)

BIKRAM JIT SINGH (1984)

Special interest: Joint replacement; Sports injuries

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; HCI International Medical Centre,
Clydebank; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

Ninewells Hospital, Dundee

BENEDICT ANTHONY CLIFT (1986)

Special interest: Joint revision surgery; Trauma surgery; Bone and joint
infection

JOHN ANTHONY DENT (1977)

GRAEME CRAIGIE FOUBISTER (1980)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery; Arthroscopic knee surgery; Major joint
replacement

AMAR SINGH JAIN (1971)

MANHAL GEORGES NASSIF (1985)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Trauma surgery

Special interest: Joint replacement and revision surgery; Arthroscopic surgery;
Foot and ankle surgery

Other NHS: Stracathro Hospital, Brechin

Private: BMI Fernbrae Hospital, Dundee

DAVID IAN ROWLEY (1976)

Specialist area: Hip and knee surgery; Foot and ankle surgery; Medico-legal work

MADAN MOHAN SHARMA (1968)

CARLOS ALBERTO WIGDEROWITZ (1983)

Perth Royal Infirmary

ARTHUR JAMES ESPLEY (1968)

Special interest: Hip and knee replacement

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling; BMI Fernbrae Hospital, Dundee

WILLIAM ALEXANDER HADDEN (1972)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Hip and knee surgery; Arthroscopic surgery; Joint replacement
and revision surgery; Medico-legal work

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh; BMI Fernbrae Hospital, Dundee

JAMES GORDON BRUCE MACLEAN (1981)

Specialist area: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery; General orthopaedic surgery;
Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Ninewells Hospital, Dundee

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

GORDON GEORGE MCLEOD (1980)

Special interest: Joint replacement; Shoulder surgery

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

BRIAN ROBERT SINGER (1983)

Specialist area: Joint replacement and revision; Young hip disease; Hip and knee
surgery; Lower limb surgery

Special interest: Lower limb joint replacement; Medico-legal work

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

Queen Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline

IVAN JACOB BRENKEL (1980)

Specialist area: Shoulder surgery; Knee replacement and revision surgery

Special interest: Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

THOMAS IAN SPOWART BROWN (1968)

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

TIMOTHY WILLIAM DOUGALL (1987)

Specialist area: Joint replacement and revision; Trauma surgery; Limb
reconstruction; Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Hip replacement revision; Ilizarov treatment; Limb
reconstruction

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

ROBERT CORNELIUS MARKS (1977)

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

JANE ELISABETH MCEACHEN (1988)

IAN GEORGE CAMERON WEIR (1979)

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

Raigmore Hospital, Inverness

KEVIN SCOTT BAIRD (1984)

Specialist area: Major joint replacement; Upper limb surgery; Trauma surgery;
General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Shoulder and elbow surgery; Hip and knee replacement; Medico-
legal work

Other NHS: Belford Hospital, Fort William; Caithness General Hospital, Wick

ALISTAIR FRASER CAMPBELL (1968)

QUENTIN GEORGE NELSON COX (1981)

SEAN MARTIN KELLY (1988)

Specialist area: Major joint replacement; Arthroscopic surgery; Lumbar spine
surgery; Trauma surgery

Special interest: Medico-legal work

Other NHS: Belford Hospital, Fort William; Caithness General Hospital, Wick

DOUGLAS WILLIAM SOMERVILLE (1951)

Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley

PAUL ALEXANDER ALLCOCK (1991)

Specialist area: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery; Trauma surgery; Pelvic and
acetabular surgery

Special interest: Medical education; Ilizarov method

GEOFFREY GILLIES AVISON (1985)

IAN JAMES CARTLIDGE (1972)

Special interest: Arthroscopic surgery; Lower limb joint replacement

Other NHS: Vale of Leven District General Hospital, Alexandria; Lorn and Islands
District General Hospital, Oban

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

SANJEEV LAKSHMAN CHITNIS (1978)

Specialist area: Hand surgery; Knee surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

SIMON DUNCAN SMITH (1985)

Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh

STEFFEN BREUSCH (1993)

JAMES CHRISTIE (1965)

Specialist area: Trauma

Special interest: Injuries

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

Merit award: A 1995

CHARLES MICHAEL COURT-BROWN (1985)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery

Special interest: Fracture treatment

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

Merit award: B 1998

JOHN NICOLAS ALASTAIR GIBSON (1978)

Specialist area: Lumbar spine surgery; Cervical spine surgery; Foot surgery;
Trauma surgery

Special interest: Foot and ankle surgery

Other NHS: St John's Hospital at Howden, Livingston

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

COLIN ROBERT HOWIE (1977)

Specialist area: Joint replacement and revision; Rheumatoid surgery; Hip
replacement; Knee replacement and revision surgery

Special interest: Arthritis surgery; Lower limb joint replacement; Lower limb
revision surgery; Upper limb arthroplasty revision surgery

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

JOHN FRANCIS KEATING (1983)

Specialist area: Knee surgery;

Sports medicine

Special interest: Knee ligament reconstruction; Sports injuries

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

GARY FITZGERALD KEENAN (1988)

GRAHAM MARK LAWSON (1986)

Specialist area: Ankle surgery; Hip and knee surgery

Special interest: Knee ligament reconstruction; Meniscal repair;

Sports injuries

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

RODERICK JOHN MACPHERSON MACDONALD (1971)

Special interest: Foot and ankle surgery; Knee anthroscopic surgery

Other NHS: St John's Hospital at Howden, Livingston

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

JULIE MARY MCBIRNIE (1988)

Specialist area: Knee surgery; Shoulder surgery

Special interest: Shoulder arthroscopy and reconstruction; Knee arthroscopy;
Soft tissue reconstruction

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

MICHAEL JOHN MCMASTER (1964)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery

Special interest: Scoliosis;

Lower back pain

Merit award: A 1992

MARGARET MURRAY MCQUEEN (1977)

Merit award: B 2002

RICHARD WILLIAM NUTTON (1975)

Specialist area: Knee surgery; Shoulder surgery; Joint replacement and revision;
Arthroscopic surgery

Special interest: Hip and knee replacement and revision surgery

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

CHRISTOPHER WILLIAM OLIVER (1985)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery; Hand and wrist surgery; Reconstructive surgery;
Arthroscopic surgery

Special interest: Medico-legal work

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

JAMES T. PATTON (1991)

DANIEL EDWARD PORTER (1989)

Specialist area: Tumour surgery;

Hip and knee surgery; Paediatric trauma; Skeletal dysplasia

CRISTOPHER MICHAEL ROBINSON (1985)

ALASTAIR HAMISH ROBERT WALLACE SIMPSON (1981)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery; Paediatric orthopaedic surgery; Reconstructive
surgery; Limb reconstruction

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

Southern General Hospital, Glasgow

DAVID BIRNIE ALLAN (1975)

Special interest: Joint replacement; Spinal cord injury

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Merit award: B 2001

MARC ADRIAN PETER BRANSBY-ZACHARY (1979)

Specialist area: Upper limb surgery; Hand and wrist surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

MICHAEL GARETH HULLIN (1979)

Specialist area: Knee surgery; Foot surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

DAVID ALEXANDER SHERLOCK (1977)

Specialist area: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

COLIN ROBERT CONNELL WALKER (1987)

Specialist area: Soft tissue knee injury; Lower joint replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

St John4s Hospital at Howden, Livingston

RICHARD BURNETT (1983)

Specialist area: Joint replacement

Special interest: Complex primary joint replacement; Joint revision surgery

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

Stirling Royal Infirmary

RAYMOND DAVID BRIGGS (1973)

Specialist area: Lower limb surgery

Special interest: Arthritis and deformity; Trauma surgery

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

GORDON MATHESON MACKAY (1987)

IAN KRISTENSEN RITCHIE (1977)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery; Joint replacement; Arthroscopic surgery; Upper
limb surgery

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

DAVID JOHN ROSS (1973)

Special interest: Hand surgery

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

Stracathro Hospital, Brechin

JAMES RICHARD BUCKLEY (1977)

PETER KENNETH RICKHUSS (1985)

JAMES EDWIN SCULLION (1969)

NEIL WILSON VALENTINE (1980)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery

Special interest: Back pain

Other NHS: Ninewells Hospital, Dundee

Private: BMI Fernbrae Hospital, Dundee; BMI Albyn Hospital, Aberdeen

Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

RICHARD ANTHONY BUXTON (1969)

Special interest: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

Other NHS: Queen Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline

Victoria Infirmary, Glasgow

CLARK ROBERTSON DREGHORN (1977)

Specialist area: Shoulder surgery

Special interest: Arthroscopic shoulder surgery; Shoulder joint replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

ERIC RICHARDSON GARDNER (1981)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

TIMOTHY EDMUND JOHN HEMS (1985)

Specialist area: Hand surgery

Special interest: Peripheral nerve surgery; Brachial plexus surgery; Upper limb
paralysis and surgical reconstruction

Other NHS: Southern General Hospital, Glasgow

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; HCI International Medical Centre,
Clydebank

COLIN CAMPBELL MAINDS (1979)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

ANDREW DAVID SHAW (1988)

Western Infirmary, Glasgow

PETROS CHATZIGRIGORIS (1982)

JAMES FRANCIS CROSSAN (1970)

Specialist area: Hand and wrist surgery; Elbow surgery; Shoulder surgery;
Medico-legal work

UMBERTO GIUSEPPE FAZZI (1985)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

ALISTAIR JOHN RUSSELL GRAY (1982)

Specialist area: Hip replacement; Knee replacement; Hip/Knee anthroplasty

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

MICHAEL JOHN JANE (1982)

MICHAEL PATRICK KELLY (1986)

WILLIAM JOSEPH LEACH (1985)

Specialist area: Knee surgery; Sports injuries

Other NHS: Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow; BMI Ross Hall Hospital

JOHN STUART MOIR (1980)

Specialist area: Foot surgery; Ankle surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

ANTHONY THOMAS CHRISTOPHER REECE (1983)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery; Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow; BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Western Isles Hospital, Stornoway

MANJUNATH PAI (1974)

Wishaw General Hospital

HEDLEY JOHN EASTER (1975)

STEFAN EHRENDORFER (1985)

Special interest: Upper limb surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

MAHER MOHAMED EL ENAM EL HADIDI (1972)

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MACSWEEN (1968)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen

PETER HUGH GIBSON (1971)

Other NHS: Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

DAVID JAMES KNIGHT (1978)

Other NHS: Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

WILLIAM MURRAY LEDINGHAM (1980)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Rheumatoid surgery; Arthroscopic
surgery; Joint replacement and revision

Special interest: Knee surgery; Hip surgery; Foot and ankle surgery;
Arthroscopic surgery

Other NHS: Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

Private: BMI Albyn Hospital, Aberdeen

JAMES MCLAUCHLAN (1961)

THOMAS ROBERT SCOTLAND (1971)

DOUGLAS WARDLAW (1969)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery

Other NHS: Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

Private: BMI Albyn Hospital, Aberdeen

Merit award: B 1997


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited


                              436 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 16, 2016 Saturday

Hospital of New Jersey tax exemption bill could face legal challenges

LENGTH: 826  words


Not-for-profit hospitals in New Jersey are anxiously waiting to see whether New
Jersey Gov. Chris Christie signs a bill that would solidify their exemptions
from state property taxes, amid increasing scrutiny of such perks.

But a state law likely won't end court battles on the issue in the Garden State
or elsewhere, some say. An Illinois appeals court recently ruled
unconstitutional that state's law defining what not-for-profit hospitals must do
to get tax breaks, leaving some wondering whether the New Jersey bill could also
face constitutional challenges.

The New Jersey bill would allow not-for-profit hospitals in the state to keep
their property tax exemptions as long as they pay their municipalities $2.50 a
day for each hospital bed and $250 a day for satellite emergency-care
facilities. Those fees would increase 2% each year to account for inflation. The
New Jersey Office of Legislative Services has estimated the law would raise $21
million for municipalities in its first year.

The bill was drafted after a state tax court in June decided to yank Morristown
(N.J.) Medical Center's property tax exemption, saying it operated, in many
ways, like a for-profit business. The hospital, owned by Atlantic Health System,
ultimately settled with its municipality for $26 million, but the judge's
decision made other New Jersey not-for-profit hospitals nervous.

Since that Morristown decision, at least 22 of the state's not-for-profit
hospitals have heard from their municipalities about the issue, said Betsy Ryan,
New Jersey Hospital Association CEO.

The bill now on Christie's desk tries to ensure that not-for-profit hospitals
can keep their exemptions while still contributing financially to their
municipalities.

"We think rather than have a piecemeal approach, where one town does one thing
and another town does another, a statewide solution to bring certainty is the
best course, Ryan said.

The Illinois law that was recently ruled unconstitutional was also aimed at
providing certainty for hospitals.

There are, however, some major differences between the Illinois law and the New
Jersey bill. The Illinois law doesn't require not-for-profit hospitals to pay
fees to municipalities. Rather, it says that the value of certain charitable and
other services offered by a hospital must exceed the estimated value of its
property tax liability if it is to get property and sales tax exemptions.

Also, the Illinois appeals court that ruled on the law last week reasoned that
it was unconstitutional because the Illinois Constitution allows lawmakers to
exempt only property used exclusively for charitable purposes. It's likely the
Illinois Supreme Court will ultimately decide the matter.

New Jersey hospitals, however, probably wouldn't have to worry about a ruling
like the one in Illinois should the New Jersey bill become law, Ryan said.

That's because New Jersey's Constitution doesn't require that property only be
exempted if it's used exclusively for charitable purposes, like Illinois' does.

Karen Ali, general counsel of the New Jersey Hospital Association, noted that
the New Jersey Constitution already allows exemptions for buildings used for
hospital purposes.

But Michael Darcy, executive director of the New Jersey State League of
Municipalities, which opposes the bill, said the state Constitution prohibits
lawmakers from passing special laws unfairly singling out certain entities for
tax exemptions.

If these businesses are being run, as the tax court said, in a manner that is
indistinguishable from a for-profit business, why are they being selected to get
this special treatment? Darcy said. The Constitution is designed so that, in
laymen's terms, there's a fairness to the taxes. You cannot give tax advantages
to one business over another.

But an analysis provided to the New Jersey Hospital Association by outside legal
counsel found that the bill would not violate that part of the state
Constitution.

That analysis notes that the bill would not be considered special legislation
because its exclusion of for-profit hospitals is reasonable. For-profit
hospitals, the analysis says, do not naturally belong with not-for-profit ones.

Don Stuart, a partner at Nashville law firm Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis, said
continued legal challenges to hospital exemptions in New Jersey are certainly
possible, even if the bill passes.

Particularly to a law that was perhaps quickly pulled together, and certainly in
light of what happened in Illinois, Stuart said.

Danny Chun, Illinois Health and Hospital Association spokesman, pointed out that
states have many approaches on hospital tax exemptions.

"There's no one size fits all," Chun said.

Christie, a Republican candidate for president, has until Tuesday to sign the
bill, if he doesn't sign it by then it will be considered vetoed. If that
happens, the bill's proponents may try to re-craft or tweak it this legislative
session to gain approval, Ryan said. 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              437 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday

Legal abortion rate declining in Israel. Numbers have dropped 25% since 1990,
Health Ministry announces

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 289 words


The legal abortion rate in 2013 declined by 5 percent compared to 2012, 18%
compared to 2000 and 25% since 1990, the Health Ministry announced on Tuesday.

The abortion rate in 2013 was 10.2 per 1,000 women of fertile age (15 to 49).

Women may apply for a legal abortion if the fetus resulted from illegal sexual
relations or outside matrimony, if the mother is younger than 17 or over 40, if
the fetus has a defect or if the mother's health (physical or mental) would be
endangered by having the baby.

The public abortion committees in hospitals received 20,857 applications in 2013
and approved 98% of them. Of these, 19,356 women went through with the abortion.
Half of the procedures were carried out in private hospitals or clinics, 29% in
government hospitals, 18% in Clalit Health Services hospitals and 5% in
voluntary hospitals in Jerusalem, compared to 59%, 25%, 13% and 5%,
respectively, in 2000.

Half of the legal abortions in 2013 were approved under the section of the law
allowing termination of pregnancies from illegal relations or those outside
matrimony, with 19% under the clause for danger to the women, 20% for a
defective fetus and 10% because of the woman's age.

The legal abortion rate in Israel is lower than in Western and Central Europe,
even among young women up to the age of 20 and over 35. The legal abortion rate
here (117) per 1,000 live births was the second lowest compared to Croatia
(85.5), compared to 434 in Bulgaria.

Possible reasons for the steady trend of fewer abortions are the growing
religious populations (Jewish and Muslim) and the fact that many women from the
former Soviet Union who came on aliya in the 1990s and were used to abortions
instead of contraception are now beyond childbearing age.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              438 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Legal action launched after asbestos scare;
Health chiefs taken by surprise at news ; CRISIS ; Ron Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 365 words


Health bosses are facing legal action after potentially lethal absestos was
found at a Paisley hospital.

The Health and Safety Executive HSE is preparing a report for Crown Office
bosses, following the discovery of the deadly substance at Dykebar Hospital in
the town's Grahamston Road.

The Express revealed last year that frail pensioners faced an agonising wait for
more than a week before they could be moved out of harm's way to another site.

The hospital was plunged into the crisis after the asbestos was discovered in a
roof space above two wards during refurbishment work.

However, according health bosses, none of the patients or staff at Dykebar had
come into contact with the toxic substance, and there was never any danger to
visitors.

Hospital management said the area was not a place where people could have come
into contact with the asbestos.

And the legal complaint has taken NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde by surprise as
they were initially told that the HSE would be taking no further action.

An HSE spokeswoman said: "The investigation at Dykebar has concluded and a
report is being prepared for consideration by COPFS."

NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said: "Whilst NHSGGC is facing legal action
regarding asbestos in one room, a plant room at the Southern General Hospital
site, the Health and Safety Executive have advised that no action will be taken
against NHSGGC following their investigations into asbestos at the three other
sites.

"We proactively reported to the HSE the presence of asbestos when it was
identified at Clydebank Health Centre, Dykebar Hospital and the Skylark Centre
at Inverclyde Royal Hospital.

"We received verbal feedback from the Health and Safety Executive that, as far
as the Dykebar site was concerned, they were taking no further action against
NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde but we will seek to clarify this with the HSE next
week."

Health bosses added they supported the appointment of an asbestos manager and
they fully abide with the law governing asbestos surveillance, management and
disposal Wards One and Five, providing Older People's Mental Health Services,
were affected by the asbestos scare at Dykebar which happened in August last
year.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Potentially lethal Asbestos was found at Dykebar Hospital last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              439 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                           December 31, 2015 Thursday

Crisis centre for victims of rape, domestic violence

LENGTH: 435  words

DATELINE: Mysuru


Mysuru, Dec. 31 -- In a bid to help victims of rape and domestic violence, the
Department of Women and Child Welfare Development, in association with K.R.
Hospital and SyndicateBank, will soon set up a full-fledged one-stop centre at
the hospital.


 One such centre has already been functioning at Cheluvamba Hospital since
November, 2014 but owing to limited space, the centre is unable to provide all
facilities under one roof.
 The special ward at K.R. Hospital is being revamped by the district Nirmithi
Kendra. Works have almost been completed and the centre may be inaugurated in
three to four days time. Soon after the formal inauguration of the centre here,
the one at Cheluvamba Hospital will be closed.
 At the new centre, victims can not only walk in and get medical examination and
counselling, but also register police complaints and seek legal aid. The
authorities have decided to provide facilities such as medical examination,
collection of forensic evidence, and registration of FIR by the police at the
centre. Victims can also seek psychosocial counselling. Further, if need be, the
hospital will help find a shelter home for victims if they have problems in
returning to their family.
 "The idea is to provide all facilities under one roof to encourage more women
to report crimes of sexual assault and domestic violence," said Radha, Deputy
Director of Women and Child Welfare Development Department. She said that the
centre will have four professionals - doctor, lawyer, police official and
counsellor (all women).
 The Police Department, District Legal Services Authority and the hospital
authorities have agreed to extend their complete support for effective
functioning of the centre at the behest of the Deputy Commissioner, Ms. Radha
said. The hospital authorities have agreed to assign a staff nurse round the
clock, while the police have consented to post a head constable on shift basis.
A separate room has been provided for recording statements and registering
complaints. SyndicateBank has provided Rs. 7.5 lakh under the CSR fund for the
centre.
 Facilities at the centre in K.R. Hospital
 Victims can undergo medical examination
 They can register police complaint and seek legal aid
 They can seek psychosocial counselling
 Centre will collect forensic evidence
 Hospital will help find shelter home for victims if they have problems in
returning to their family
 Centre will have a doctor, lawyer, police official, and counsellor (all women)
 Staff nurse will be assigned round the clock
 Head constable will be posted on shift basis
 Separate room will be available to record statements

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              440 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             March 11, 1991, Monday

Building a solid foundation; Lawyer-turned-fund-raiser seeks support for
hospitals

BYLINE: By Robert J. Vickers Staff writerhospitals; administration; benefits;
finances; profiles; gwinnett/county

SECTION: EXTRA; SECTION J; PAGE 07

LENGTH: 589 words


John O. "Jack" Moore, who set out to be a lawyer, even practiced for seven years
after earning his law degree and arriving in Atlanta in 1979.

But a funny thing steered the career of the 37-year-old Easley, S.C., native
away from the courtroom debates of the legal world.

During his legal studies at the University of Virginia, Mr. Moore enjoyed
raising money for the school so much that in 1986 he switched jobs to raise
funds for Emory University's Health Finances division.

"I wanted to do something on the collegiate level," he said. "That's how I ended
up at Emory and getting into the health field."

That background made him well-suited to assume the role of director of
development for the Gwinnett Hospital System Foundation - the private,
non-profit fund-raising organ of the county's public hospital system.

"Originally Howard Fowler was brought in to be the legal counsel for the
hospital authority and director of the foundation," Mr. Moore said. "But it's
more like a full-time job. That's why I was brought in to take over."

Although the foundation, headed by Mr. Fowler and former hospital authority
chairwoman Jeanine Gullett, is still in its planning phase, two projects have
already been taking up most of Mr. Moore's time.

The third annual Spring for Life Road Race, co-sponsored by the foundation and
Primerica Financial Services in Duluth, is set for May 18. Mr. Moore is
soliciting participation and corporate sponsorship for the race, which raises
funds for the three county hospitals' neonatal intensive care units.

Mr. Moore's other time-consuming task is organizing the Gwinnett Hospital System
Foundation Council, a 30-member group of hospital officials and county residents
set up to advise the hospital authority and help solicit financial support.

"It's a cross-section of professionals, community leaders, business leaders and
educators," he said. "They are leaders who know about the community, and we want
input from them on the future health-care needs of the county."

Each council member will spend two days a year at one of the system's hospitals
to learn what it's doing. The members will be charged with increasing the
system's ties to the community and seeking out financial support, he said.

"In a job like this, when you're dealing with the public and volunteers, there
are a lot of evening meetings," he said of his schedule. "Any time you work with
volunteers, you have to work around their hours, because they have to be out
making a living."

With those two projects, the foundation, created about two years ago, soon hopes
to take its first definitive steps toward securing additional funding for the
hospital system. When discussing the need for more money, authority members
point to a $ 500,000 reduction in the allotment the system received from the
County Commission this year.

"The first half of the year is going to be spent looking at things we want to
get involved in," he said. "I'm looking to come out of the starting blocks in
the summer."

That's when the foundation may tackle other potential fund-raisers, like a gala
ball, he said. But the most important thing he can do for the foundation now is
win the trust of the people of Gwinnett County.

"When you first come in with something like this, you have to build
relationships with people," Mr. Moore said. "People need to realize that there
is a reason to contribute to an organization, and it's up to us to convince
people that we're worthy of their support."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: color photo: John O. "Jack" Moore, director of development for the
Gwinnett Hospital System Foundation, discusses plans with the foundation's
Jeanine Gullett. / Charlotte B. Teagle / Staff

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


                              441 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                            March 15, 2014 Saturday

Medic suing hospital

BYLINE: Claire Simpson, c.simpson@irishnews.com

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 269 words


A senior consultant is suing the Royal Victoria Hospital Belfast for negligence,
claiming the hospital is depriving patients "their basic human rights".

A patient is also suing the trust which runs the hospital.

High-profile Belfast legal firm Madden & Finucane Solicitors said the doctor and
patient had instructed them to bring legal proceedings.

Solicitor Patrick Madden said the action was linked to "negligence at the
hospital and a systemic failure which has led to patients suffering avoidable
harm and deprivation of their basic human rights".

Mr Madden said evidence of "appalling standards of care and neglect of patients"
had been disclosed to the firm.

He claimed the evidence showed that there was a "toxic" environment in the Royal
for staff and patients.

"The hospital has failed in its basic duty of care," he said.

"Given the extent of the failures within this department, we consider that a
full Public Inquiry is of urgent public importance."

In a statement the Belfast trust said: "We await correspondence from Madden and
Finucane and will deal with any legal proceedings appropriately. At this time we
are not in a position to comment further.

"The trust is currently participating in an RQAI review of emergency and
unscheduled care."

The legal action comes after an elderly woman died on a trolley in the Royal's
accident and emergency department last month.

There is concern that delays in treating the woman may have contributed to her
death.

The Belfast health trust said in February it is investigating the deaths of five
other people at the hospital amid concerns they were not treated quickly enough.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              442 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

DC Hospital Unit Accuses Counsel Of Overcharging

                             April 13, 1984, Friday

By Gretchen Chell

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


The District of Columbia Hospital Association has accused bond counsel of
overcharging legal fees for a $40 milllon dollar proposed hospital equipment
bond issue for area hospitals.

At issue is an agreement made between the District of Columbia government and
five law firms last year; it requires the district to pay legal fees of 1% of
the bond issue, as well as other costs.

Lawyers rendering an opinion that the hospital issue is exempt from federal
income tax stand to receive a $400,000 fee plus $20,000 in preliminary costs if
the fee structure remains unchanged.

The dispute, which has ensued over several months, is stalling work on the bond
issue for area hospitals, Stephen Lipson, executive director of the hospital,
said today.

"Things are being held up until we resolve this," Mr. Lipson said. "That's the
stumbling block." Stephen Kahn, a partner with the law firm Melrod, Redman &
Gartlan, which is acting as bond counsel for the hospital issue, said the law
firm has been negotiating the fee with the hospital association and has no
intention of receiving a 1% fee.

"We're not out to overcharge," Mr. Kahn said. "I recognized the need to adjust
the fee when this [bond] issue was proposed. It was just too high."

When setting the legal fee structure, the District of Columbia presumed most of
the IDB issues would range between $1 million and $10 million -- making a 1% fee
plausible -- and did not envision larger bond issues, Mr. Lipson and Mr. Kahn
said.

Furthermore, Mr. Kahn said the bond issue has been stalled because of the legal
problems over changes in the district's home rule law to make it conform to a
1983 Supreme Court ruling. The home rule problem arose over the summer when the
Supreme Court ruled against the so-called legislative veto.

As an unanticipated side effect, the Supreme Court ruling brought into question
the congressional veto provisions in the district's home rule charter. Until
that matter is resolved, the district cannot issue bonds.

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 339 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1984 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


                              443 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 April 6, 2014

Mater consultants can work privately

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 305 words


Twelve hospital consultants at the Mater Hospital in Dublin have been allowed to
work in the private hospital, in an apparent breach of the terms of the
consultants' contract.

The contract is at the centre of a major dispute between St Vincent's Hospital
Group and the HSE, with St Vincent's expected to initiate legal action in a bid
to ensure some 80 consultants with public contracts can continue to work in the
private hospital.

Twelve hospital consultants have been given letters of comfort' by hospital
management at the Mater. These letters allow the consultants to work in the
Mater Private Hospital, which is located close by, but under separate ownership.

The Sunday Business Post understands that one health insurer threatened to stop
paying these consultants private fees. The insurer withdrew the threat, after a
consultant initiated legal proceedings.

The Mater did not respond to questions posed by this newspaper.

The HSE has threatened to impose financial sanctions on St Vincent's Hospital
over the hospital's failure to stop 80 consultants with public contracts from
working in the private hospital.

However, SVHG said it had received legal advice advising it that, as the private
hospital is co-located with the public hospital and under the same ownership, it
is in a unique position whereby its consultants can work across both hospitals
on the same campus.

The HSE has dismissed this. Speaking on RTE, its chief executive Tony O'Brien
said the taxpayer was paying the salaries of a large number of consultants on
the understanding that they would be doing all of their work in St Vincent's
University (public) hospital.

O'Brien said the private hospital was ''effectively being run on the back of the
public hospital through consultants whose salaries are paid by the taxpayer. He
described this as ''inappropriate.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              444 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              July 18, 2014 Friday

Halifax Health's most expensive attorney costs $935 an hour

LENGTH: 615  words


Halifax Health's highest-billing lawyer in its whistleblower lawsuit is making
$935 an hour, and his firm has pulled in more than $17 million so far, according
to information obtained Thursday by The News-Journal through a public records
request. In total, the 678-bed public hospital system has spent $22.8 million on
legal fees fighting the five-year lawsuit accusing the hospital of maintaining
illegal contracts with nine doctors and overcharging Medicare.


An additional $1.5 million has been spent on other legal-related costs, but a
detailed breakdown hasn't been released.
McDermott, Will & Emery LLP, which has been recognized as one of the top health
law firms in the country, served as lead counsel and was paid $17.7 million. The
firm has offices nationwide and is headquartered in Chicago.
"With careful consideration of the potential penalties the hospital could face,
we assembled law firms that had thorough understanding and experience with these
particular highly complex health care laws," said John Guthrie, a hospital
spokesman.
At one time, potential damages in the case were estimated to exceed $1 billion.

The case appears to be drawing to a close, pending final approval from the
federal government. Halifax Health reached two settlements totaling $86 million.
The hospital used 11 attorneys from four law firms, including Ormond Beach-based
Kaney Law.
That firm was paid $41,422. Halifax Health also paid nearly $800,000 to
attorneys representing doctors and employees.
Their most expensive lawyer, Anthony Upshaw, a partner with McDermott, Will &
Emery who makes $935 an hour, earned a "top ten defense verdict related to his
defense of the tobacco industry," according to his online biography. He
represented RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co. in a class-action lawsuit. He also has
defended "pharmaceutical, asbestos and pollution claims."
Another heavy hitter for Halifax Health's defense team included T. Reed
Stephens, who earns $890 an hour and is also a partner in McDermott Will &
Emery.
Stephens is "a nationally recognized expert in the pharmaceutical fraud and
abuse and corporate compliance area."
As a former attorney with the U.S. Department of Justice Civil Division,
Stephens was lead or co-lead counsel in more than 60 investigations - the
majority involving allegations of health care fraud - before switching to the
defense side.
Elin Baklid-Kunz, director of physician services, filed the suit in June 2009.
Before the suit was filed, McDermott Will & Emery issued a legal opinion to
Halifax Health that a "reasonable argument" existed that the contracts in
question could be defended in court, but it could not "provide any assurances" a
judge or the federal government would agree. That opinion contradicted an
earlier internal legal memo written by a hospital lawyer questioning legality of
the contracts.  In March, Halifax Health settled that part of the case for $85
million. Earlier this month, it settled for $1 million the remaining claims
involving allegations the hospital overcharged Medicare, according to court
records.
The case has attracted national attention, and one of the judge's rulings on
damages will likely be cited for years to come, said Jesse Witten, a
Washington-based lawyer who defends hospitals in cases involving allegations of
Medicare fraud.
"This is the most important health care case of the year," Witten said.
Initially, the hospital declined to release a detailed accounting of legal fees,
citing an exemption in the public records law.
The information was released after the Orlando TV station WFTV sued in Volusia
County circuit court and The News-Journal then requested the same records.
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              445 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday
                                  Pune Edition

Recent GR enabled survivor to be treated at private hospital

BYLINE: Malathy Iyer | TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 388 words


When the 23-year-old photojournalist was taken to Jaslok Hospital on Peddar Road
late on Wednesday evening,it was perhaps the first time that a rape survivor's
entire medical examination took place in a private hospital.Till the April
government resolution,rape survivors were sent to public or government hospitals
for medical examination;procedures like medico-legal examination,collection of
evidence,documentation were considered the responsibility of public hospital
doctors only.Social activists had long protested against the inconvenience to
survivors,especially because they would have to travel from a suburb to a
state-run hospital in south Mumbai.Such delay could jeopardise the health of the
victim and lead to loss of potential medico-legal evidence,the activists
said.Moreover,they added that the Section 164 A of the CrPC in 2005 allowed any
registered medical practitioner to conduct the medical examination and insisted
that he/ she must provide immediate medical care.On Thursday,it was the first
time a patient of sexual assualt was provided with medico-legal examination as
well as treatment at a private hospital in Mumbai.The photojournalist's
paperwork and samples were collected at Jaslok Hospital itself and sent to the
Kalina Forensic Sciences Laboratory.She was also given preventive medication."In
a government resolution dated May 10,it has been stated that rape survivors can
access any hospital based on their convenience for the examination and
treatment," police surgeon Dr S M Patil told TOI.Dr Patil said Jaslok Hospital
was the first to do the procedure in the private sector.Sangeeta Rege of NGO
CEHAT (Centre for Enquiry into Health & Allied Themes) said Jaslok Hospital has
now paved way for other private hospitals to a ensure that survivors of sexual
assault get comprehensive healthcare services at the hospital of their
choice."It is indeed heartening to see that treatment of survivor was
prioritised and no unneccesary demand was made for police requisition for a
medical examination to the survivor," she said.Criminal Law Amendment,April 2013
For the first time,various forms of sexual assault-oral,anal and penetrative
sex-have been mentioned Acid attacks and stalking also included as separate IPC
offences No hospital,whether private or public,can deny treatment to rape
survivors

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              446 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                Derbyshire Times

                                 April 14, 2005

Sales touts facing hospital legal move

LENGTH: 236 words


Hospital bosses are considering taking legal action against hard-sell salesmen
who are preying on vulnerable accident and emergency patients.

Compensation companies, offering 'no win, no fee' legal representation, have
been caught touting for business in the casualty department at Chesterfield
Royal Hospital.

One sales representative had to be escorted off the premises by an off-duty
policeman and security staff. Others have been spotted approaching people who
were visiting outpatient clinics for treatment.

Sarah Turner-Saint, Head of Communications at the Royal, said: "We realise
obviously that people have accidents and there are occasions when they may be
entitled to compensation.

"But from our point of view, we feel targeting patients in the accident and
emergency department when they have actually had the accident and are waiting to
be treated is not the right way to go about marketing and touting for this kind
of business."

Mrs Turner-Saint confirmed that managers of the hospital ? which does not allow
advertising of any form on its property ? are seeking legal advice following
complaints from patients.

Chesterfield Royal Hospital is the largest in north Derbyshire, serving a
population of around 375,000. More than 3,000 staff work for the Chesterfield
Royal Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and the hospital has around 570 beds.

sean.boyle@derbyshiretimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2005 Johnston Press Plc


                              447 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 19, 1998, Monday

MEDICS CAUGHT LAWYER 'TOUTING' IN ARMY HOSPITAL;
 SOLICITOR CAUGHT TOUTING FOR BUSINESS IN ARMY HOSPITAL

BYLINE: Nicola Tallant

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 395 words


DEFENCE chief Michael Smith has revealed that a solicitor was caught touting for
business in an army hospital.

The disclosure comes as the government fights compensation claims running into
millions from service personnel.

The Minister said the lawyer was run off the ward by an army medic but went on
to accuse "scavaging solicitors" of encouraging servicemen to sue for anything
from sunburn to hearing loss.

He called the compensation claims "a lucrative goldmine" which is currently cost
the taxpayer pounds 85million and could eventually escalate to pounds
200million.

Six hundred new claims are piling in every month.

Mr Smith said: "The soldiers see this as a lucrative goldmine regardless of the
consequences caused to the taxpayers.

"But it is important to understand why."

He said the solicitor caught at the hospital "was going from bed to bed trying
to find new clients".

The Minister added: "I have the greatest respect for the legal profession but a
minority of solicitors are scavaging sick beds advising soldiers to sue."

There are between 150,000 and 160,000 potential claimants both serving and
retired.

The Minister vowed to fight forthcoming civil suits in an effort to alleviate
the massive legal and pay-out costs.

He said: "I have an enormous task to halt this avalanche.

"We already have to deal with astronomical legal costs for the present claims
with pounds 85million cited as the figure for current cases.

"At the end of the year we'll be looking at pounds 200milion for the legal
services alone.

"There are levels for genuine cases. But we will be fighting the more minor
hurts."

The Minister is to set up an army compensation board to deal with the crisis.

It would sit five days a week and be staffed by legal, medical and civil
experts.

The Minister also intends to fight more cases through the courts.

The Department has been contesting only one in 10 cases because out-of- court
settlements would be less expensive.

The estimated total cost of settling the existing 11,500 claims would be pounds
500million of which pounds 200million would be soaked up in legal and
administrative costs.

The average pounds 40,000 paid out in settlements consists of pounds 25,000
compensation, pounds 9,000 for the plaintiff's legal fees and pounds 6,000 for
the State's costs.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLEDGE: Michael Smith

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.


                              448 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                              June 3, 2013 Monday

Families accuse Sharjah hospital of negligence. Medics face probes into deaths
of five patients this year

BYLINE: Yasin Kakande

LENGTH: 304  words


Hospital staff attended a workshop entitled "The legal responsibilities of
medical practitioners".

SHARJAH // The families of five patients who died this year at Al Qassimi
hospital have filed cases with the medical authorities claiming negligence.
»In all cases the patient died but it´s the work of higher medical authorities
or the courts to say there was a medical error committed or not,« said Dr Arif
Al Noryani, the hospital´s chief executive. ¬ The five cases - involving the
maternity, cardiology and paediatrics departments - are being investigated by
the Higher Medical Responsibility Committee.

¬ Dr Al Noryani said the Ministry of Health followed up on every case filed with
the committee. ¬ If medical staff were found guilty of a medical error, they
would face appropriate punishments, he added, which could involve the criminal
courts. ¬ »The punishment could be as harsh as a jail term,« he said. »One of
the staff nurses was recently sentenced to six months in prison for medical
negligence.« ¬ Dr Al Noryani was speaking at a legal workshop for 75 hospital
staff, held in conjunction with Sharjah courts and the Ministry of Justice to
create a better understanding of the law. ¬ Mohammed Saeed Al Muhairi, a senior
legal adviser with the ministry, discussed the legal responsibilities and rights
of medical practitioners. ¬ »There is always a need to nurture a culture of law
among medical personnel and create awareness about the main medical errors,« he
said. ¬ The session was informative and all the staff benefited, said Sheikh
Mohammed bin Saqr Al Qassimi, the assistant undersecretary at the Ministry of
Health and director of Sharjah Health Zone. »We shall have more similar
workshops here and in other hospitals to create legal awareness among doctors,
as this is very important.«ykakande@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday

Judicial Ruling on East Bay Hospital's Closure Complicated by Patient's Death

LENGTH: 370  words


A U.S. District Court judge tomorrow will hear new evidence on the potential
closure of the emergency department at Doctors Medical Center in San Pablo.
Earlier this month the cash-strapped hospital began ambulance diversions,
turning people away from the emergency department because of staffing shortages.


Last week a man died after being diverted to Alta Bates, a 25-minute ambulance
ride from Doctors Medical Center.
Federal judge William Orrick on Aug. 11 denied a motion for a restraining order
that would have kept the emergency doors open.
The group of nurses and patients who filed for the restraining order hope the
judge will reconsider, in part because of the patient death, which may have been
influenced by the lengthy diversion.
As all the legal maneuvering is coming to a head this week, there is a
legislative push, as well, to try to keep Doctors Medical Center open.
AB 39 by Assembly member Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) asks federal officials to
designate DMC as a public hospital, as a demonstration project. That would buy
the hospital a little time to figure out a viable long-term plan, according to
Skinner.
Another attempt to keep the hospital solvent, a group attempt at financing
involving public health officials, nearby hospital officials affected by the
potential closure and others has hit an impasse, according to Chuck Finnie, vice
president of communications and media at BMWL and Partners, a San Francisco law
firm that brought the lawsuit to keep the emergency department doors open at
Doctors Medical Center.
"We've been in this process with public health officials and the hospital
council for a long time," Finnie said. "What's happened there is the numbers
just aren't penciling out."
If the situation can't be quickly addressed in the courts, or if the Skinner
bill can't turn around the problem immediately, the hospital is on an arc to
shut down all services soon, Finnie said.
"The hospital is on a glide path to the end of October," Finnie said.
The hospital has been capped at 50 beds, rather than its usual 130, Finnie said,
and this week that cap will be lowered to 30 beds. The hospital can't possibly
survive long with that limited income stream, he said.
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              450 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New Laws Don't Cut Hospitals' Legal Bills

BYLINE: CAROL GENTRY, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words


MALPRACTICE CLAIMS ARE DOWN

By CAROL GENTRY

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The number of claims against hospitals in Florida and two other states
has fallen substantially since changes in malpractice laws in 2003, according to
a new study.

However, hospital legal costs have gone up significantly at the same time. As a
result, hospitals' cost related to negligence claims is still rising.

"Patient-safety initiatives being implemented today will be critical" if
hospitals are to lower costs, said the study by Aon Risk Consultants, a Chicago
company that advises employers on control of benefit costs.

Florida's cost per hospital bed for claims payouts and legal defense was $6,200
last year and should reach $7,000 next year, according to the study. That is
well above the national average of $4,800.

"Florida is the highest-cost state that we review," said study author Greg
Larcher, a director and actuary for Aon in Maryland. The database for the study
includes data from 45 states.

The study said about 21 percent of hospitals' expense connected to claims this
year will go toward legal fees - the cost to investigate and negotiate
settlements, even though cases rarely end up in court. That's up from 17 percent
in 2002.

Aon did not include the cost of insurance in its calculations, limiting them to
legal defense and payouts. That removes one of the major complications in
tracking malpractice costs - profit for the insurance industry.

Aon conducted the study, which covers 48,000 claims from 1998 through 2005, with
the American Society for Healthcare Risk Management, an offshoot of the American
Hospital Association. Its key findings include:

o The frequency of claims nationwide for hospitals has held steady the past two
years and has gone down for physicians. Losses reported to the National
Practitioner Data Bank went down for a doctor who is not in a high-risk
specialty from an average of $11,620 in 1998 to $9,170 last year.

o The average loss on claims increases at an annual rate of 6 percent.

o Frequency, severity and losses from complaints vary significantly by state,
with Florida at the high end of the scale and Minnesota at the low end.

Florida led the pack in substantial claims during the years studied. It had 190
payouts of at least $1 million, compared with 94 for more-populous California,
111 for Texas and 73 for Pennsylvania. The million-dollar cases accounted for 20
percent of losses in Florida, Aon said.

At the other end of the chart was Minnesota. Only 2 percent of its claims came
from million-dollar cases, and the per-bed cost of claims is forecast to be only
$1,500 next year.

The number of claims per hospital bed in Florida has fallen every year since
2002, hitting 2.8 claims last year, Larcher said. That's still above the
national average of 2.6, he noted.

In Minnesota, the average claim payment is similar to other states, Larcher
said, but the rate of claims per bed is 0.5, he said.

One conclusion Aon drew from its results is that changes in laws in Florida,
Pennsylvania and Texas in 2003 triggered the reduction in claims frequency.

That year, Florida capped jury awards for "pain and suffering" at $500,000 for
doctors and $750,000 for hospitals, except in cases resulting in death or severe
and permanent injury. In those, the caps are $1 million for doctors and $1.5
million for hospitals.

The Florida Medical Association also subsequently won passage of a
constitutional amendment that limits the payout to the patient's attorney in a
successful case.

Tampa litigator Lee Gunn thinks Aon is off-base in tying the slowdown in claims
to the 2003 legislative changes.

"The 2003 Legislature certainly created a greater barrier than ever for those
victims of medical negligence who are seeking access to the courts that all
citizens of our state are constitutionally entitled to receive," Gunn said. But
it's just one of many factors in the "chilling effect on the ability of
patient-victims to seek compensation," such as the tremendous expense and time
involved for the attorney.

Previous academic studies at Harvard University and elsewhere found most medical
negligence didn't lead to legal claims, let alone payouts.

The Aon study did not try to figure out which major complications and patient
deaths may have involved negligence, but it found that "only a small fraction"
led to claims. Nationally, in 10,000 patient admissions, there would typically
be 600 deaths and major complications, but only five paid claims, the study
found.

(CHART) LIABILITY COSTS STILL HIGH

Florida hospitals' cost for legal fees and payouts has moderated but is still
the highest in nation, projected at $7,000 per bed next year. Minnesota is
lowest.

Fla. $7,000

Ohio $5,200

Texas $4,100

N.C. $4,100

Calif. $3,700

Pa. $3.500

Va. $3,200

Minn. $1,500

(Tribune graphic)

Reporter Carol Gentry can be reached at (813) 259-7624 or cgentry@tampatrib.com.

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Harlem Groups Try to Stop St. Luke's Growth

BYLINE: By E. R. SHIPP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 581 words


A coalition of legal-rights organizations has asked the Federal Government to
block a $500 million renovation of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and to
stop the center from reducing services relied on by the poor at its Morningside
Heights campus.

The coalition has said the center is discriminating against black and Hispanic
patients and people without health insurance and ignoring its community-service
obligations under Federal law.

The medical center has replied that it needs to consolidate its birth and
newborn care wards at one of its two hospitals in order to save money. It said
it plans to improve care for expectant mothers at St. Luke's uptown, but have
them deliver at Roosevelt, in midtown. It denied that it was discriminating
against any patients.

Cut Back 291 Beds

Renovation plans call for St. Luke's to reduce its beds to 489 from 780. The
hospital, on Amsterdam Avenue at 114th Street, serves Morningside Heights,
Manhattan Valley, and Central and West Harlem, parts of which have been
classified by state and Federal health agencies as "medically underserved."
Infant mortality in Harlem is high and a 1990 state health review found prenatal
care to be the worst in the city.

While many local residents are against losing any beds, the plans to shift
obstetrics, pediatrics and neonatal intensive care have become the focus of much
of the anger.

The first modernization plan would have eliminated all 121 of those beds at St.
Luke's and put them in a new 137-bed center at Roosevelt Hospital, which is 55
blocks away, on Ninth Avenue at 59th Street.

But after neighborhood protests, the medical center said it would keep 22
obstetric and 14 neonatal intensive care beds in the modernized St. Luke's, if
it could find the money.

Local opponents -- and their lawyers from the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, the Legal Aid Society and the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund -- say that is not enough.

Other Hospitals Closed

They argue that St. Luke's is abandoning the area after a long tradition of
serving the poor and they point out that half a dozen upper Manhattan hospitals
have closed in the last 20 years.

In an administrative complaint sent to the Department of Health and Human
Services this month, the coalition said the hospital wants to attract more
"white, privately-insured, generally-healthy residents."

A hospital spokeswoman, Michele DeMilly, said the hospital "will never
discriminate in the provision of health care services."

She acknowledged that the $20 million for a new St. Luke's obstetric and
neonatal intensive-care center is not available now.

That made Marianne Engelman Lado, an N.A.A.C.P. fund lawyer, call St. Luke's
offer to keep beds for mothers and infants "an empty promise."

St. Luke's and Roosevelt were merged in 1979 and serve the West Side from 34th
Street to 142d Street. Since Roosevelt was centrally located, Ms. DeMilly said,
maternity and pediatric services were kept there in the consolidation plan.

At St. Luke's, she said, "the notion is to provide prenatal care so we can get
these women to register and ultimately to deliver healthy babies" at Roosevelt.

But the legal-rights organizations contend in their complaint that "poor
patients are the least likely to migrate out of their neighborhood for obstetric
services."

The Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Civil Rights is not
expected to reach a decision for several months.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              452 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday

Legal fight ends in heartbreak

SECTION: SWINDON NEWS (SWINDON NEWS)

LENGTH: 618 words


AFTER an epic and costly legal battle, a top judge yesterday broke Wiltshire
residents' hearts when he refused to order the re-opening of a much-loved
community hospital.

Local people turned up in droves to support the campaign to save Savernake
Hospital, near Marlborough, spearheaded by retired physiotherapy assistant, Val
Compton.

In a case which will have cost the Wiltshire Primary Care Trust a six-figure sum
in legal costs, Mrs Compton mounted a wide-ranging attack on its decision to
shut the hospital's Minor Injuries Unit and, she claimed, to close its Day
Hospital by stealth.

Mr Justice Cranston accepted that the PCT was guilty of an error of judgement
when it appointed a company called Red Bridge Solutions Ltd to analyse responses
during a public consultation exercise prior to the closure decision.

That was because one of the company's directors, Stephen Tanner, was the partner
of Jane Britton, who was at the time associate director of patient and public
involvement at the Avon, Gloucestershire and Wiltshire Strategic Health
Authority.

But the judge rejected Mrs Compton's plea that the relationship between Mr
Tanner and Ms Britton gave rise to an appearance of bias.

He said Red Bridge was selected after a rigorous tendering process and the
company accurately recorded the views of those opposed to the hospital closure.

In any event, the judge added, the Strategic Health Authority's role was to
advise the PCT on procedural requirements, not on decision-making.

The PCT disputed claims it had closed the Day Hospital.

But Mrs Compton pointed out that refurbished consulting rooms were largely
empty.

On that issue, the judge said: "Mrs Compton's evidence persuaded me the Day
Hospital as a suite of rooms at the Savernake site has been, in substance,
closed."

But, observing that the PCT had put in place a network of "neighbourhood teams"
providing medical services in the community, the judge said: "If the Day
Hospital is regarded as a collection of health services, it is alive and well."

Mrs Compton argued the PCT's clinical grounds for closing the hospital do not
stand scrutiny and that the real reason behind the move was a financial one
which, she claimed, was based on flawed assumptions that running down Savernake
would save money.

Despite Mrs Compton's plea that reinstatement of the facilities at Savernake
would produce savings, the PCT insisted that its new arrangements, including
neighbourhood teams, were working well for patients.

Dismissing Mrs Compton's challenge, the judge ruled: "Given the financial
arguments the PCT now adduces, it is impossible for me to conclude that the
PCT's financial case was flawed on public law grounds."

Mr Justice Cranston said he was impressed by Mrs Compton's supporters who
attended court. He said: "It must have been especially galling when, shortly
after the facilities at Savernake Hospital had been refurbished, the decisions
regarding the Day Hospital and Minor Injuries Unit were taken.

"I have expressed my view that the decision to engage Red Bridge constituted an
error of judgment.

"But in legal terms, the challenge that the decisions were flawed for apparent
bias because of Red Bridge's involvement cannot succeed.

"I have concluded that the PCT's decisions in respect of both the Day Hospital
and the Minor Injuries Unit at Savernake Hospital were properly made."

After the ruling, PCT barrister Fenella Morris said the litigation was quite
phenomenally costly and asked for Mrs Compton, whose case was backed by the
pressure group Community Action for Savernake Hospital, to pay a £20,000 legal
costs bill.

Mr Justice Cranston said it was right that she and her supporters should make a
contribution and fixed her bill at £10,000.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              453 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            April 21, 2004 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Hospitals' legal threat for nurses

BYLINE: Paul Robinson, Marc Moncrief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words


Key negotiators for Victorian public hospitals are preparing to take legal
action against nurses over an industrial campaign that will disrupt the hospital
system from today.

The action proposed by the Victorian Hospitals Industrial Association is
expected to inflame what has become an intractable dispute surrounding the
state's health system.

Up to 2000 nurses from across the state met in Melbourne yesterday to endorse a
series of bans designed to close beds, disrupt elective surgery and disorganise
blood processing.

The nurses have lost patience with health officials, whom they say will not
bargain in good faith. They warned yesterday of further bans if the Government
did not drop its opposition to nurse-patient ratios and boost a 3 per cent pay
offer by May 4.

Nurses are defending a ratio of five nurses to 20 patients. They also want pay
rises of about 8 per cent a year. Their campaign is expected to close more than
25 per cent of public hospital beds and disrupt a quarter of elective surgery
procedures.

VHIA chief executive Alec Djoneff said bans and limitations endorsed by nurses
would have an "extremely serious impact" on the ability of hospitals to service
patients.

Mr Djoneff said legal action against the protected campaign could be taken by
major hospitals hit by work bans today.

"We will be monitoring the situation closely. Any number of hospitals could act
quickly if we believe action by nurses is causing a threat to the health and
safety of patients. We think the closing of a quarter of the beds in the system
is calculated to cause maximum harm to Victoria's hospitals," he said.

Victorian Health Minister Bronwyn Pike said action by nurses would have grave
consequences for the health system. She said the dispute was essentially over
the system of nurse- patient ratios imposed on the Government by the Australian
Industrial Relations Commission during an arbitrated settlement of the last
volatile nurses agreement three years ago.

Ms Pike said the system was too restrictive to help patients most in need. "We
say to the union we want to work with you to make the ratio system more flexible
so that it can actually treat the sickest patients more effectively. No nurses
will lose their jobs under a more flexible ratio system, and it's a nonsense to
suggest that they will," she said.

Ms Pike said pay and conditions demanded by the union were "impossible" for the
Government to meet.

Australian Nursing Federation secretary Lisa Fitzpatrick said the Government had
refused to bargain in good faith, leaving nurses little option but to act.

Ratios were "non-negotiable" and underpinned why more than 4000 nurses had
returned to work three years ago. This had made Victoria the only state without
serious shortages at a time of an international nursing staff crisis.

OPINION Editorial, Tandberg NEWS 16

EXPRESS The Last Word NEWS 18

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              454 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Messenger Newspapers

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Campaign group launches legal action following hospital downgrade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


DOCTORS campaigning against the downgrade of Wythenshawe hospital are taking
legal action - a move which health bosses claim could cost the taxpayer up to
half a million pounds.

On Monday, campaign group Keep Wythenshawe Special issued legal proceedings for
a judicial review of the decision to not designate Wythenshawe as a 'specialist'
hospital.

The campaign group, made up of members of staff at the hospital, said that the
loss of specialist status will have a 'catastrophic impact on patient care' and
began legal proceedings after talks with the two sides broke down.

Speaking on behalf of Keep Wythenshawe Special, consultant surgeon Andrew
Macdonald, said: "It is with great regret that we feel we have been left with no
choice but to take formal legal action.

"We have not been given the assurances we sought from the commissioning groups
and have real concerns about how the plans will affect patient safety in the
Greater Manchester region."

The decision not to grant specialist status to Wythenshawe Hospital was made by
12 Greater Manchester NHS clinical commissioning groups in July,as part of the
'Healthier Together' reorganisation of hospital provision in Greater Manchester.

A judge is expected to consider whether to allow the case to proceed to a full
judicial review hearing early next month.

Dr Nigel Guest, GP, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and member of the
Healthier Together committees in common, said the legal challenge is 'extremely
disappointing'.

He said that £500,000 of public funds has been put aside to defend the case
should the judge grant permission to proceed.

"This money should be spent on patient care and improving local services," he
added.

"We have met with these individuals a number of times to understand their
concerns and tried to resolve the issue collaboratively, rather than going
through a legal process. However, the group has refused further meetings and has
formed a private company, Keep Wythenshawe Special, in order to sue the NHS."

Dr Guest also asserted that, despite reports to the contrary, every A&E will
remain open in the region.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              455 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                  Burton Mail

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

Dentist who blew whistle against health trust winslegal case

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6-7

LENGTH: 621  words


A Burton consultant dentist who complained he was the victim of a witch hunt at
a Shropshire hospital after making whistle-blowing allegations about waiting
list breaches for patients has won legal claims against his former employers.

Paul Dowsing, of Branston, who specialised in treating mainly young patients for
dental regularities, was consultant orthodontist at Telford's Princess Royal
Hospital.

He made legal claims for detriment and constructive unfair dismissal against
Shrewsbury and Telford Hospitals NHS Trust at Birmingham Employment Tribunal
after complaining that he was put under pressure to resign after making
whistle-blowing allegations against the hospital.

He alleged the hospital "covered up" failures to meet patient treatment targets
within 18 weeks - at one stage involving 176 patients - and kept a "hidden"
surgery waiting list of patients.

Mr Dowsing complained that the "waiting patients" could have been lost forever,
considering that some dental work could take up to three years.

Mr Dowsing also alleged the hospital "stopped the clock" for patients when they
had been seen for assessment, rather than when their treatment had commenced.

There was also an allegation that a hospital staff member incorrectly ordered
£10,000 worth of stock.

The trust opposed Mr Dowsing's legal claims and accused him of bringing patients
from his Manor Practice at Burton to the hospital for out-of-hours treatment as
private patients. The hospital complained this was a breach of contract and
twice excluded (suspended) him for a total of nearly 21 months.

An investigation was carried out into the situation and Mr Dowsing complained he
became the victim of a witch hunt.

In a deferred ruling, tribunal judge Ron Broughton has announced that Mr Dowsing
was subjected to detriment and unfairly constructively dismissed as a result of
making whistle-blowing disclosures. But he also said that Mr Dowsing's own
conduct had been "potentially both culpable and contributory".

Mr Broughton said in his report: "The respondent's evidence with regard to the
alleged cover-up in relation to waiting lists was both patchy and contradictory.

"It was admitted before us that the respondent had been incorrectly stopping the
clock for patients once they had been seen by a consultant as opposed to it
continuing to run until their treatment had actually commenced.

"It was further admitted that a book was maintained which contained the name of
patients awaiting treatment.

"While it was not admitted that this was in any way connected with any attempted
cover-up regarding waiting lists, it was the respondent's evidence that once
they discovered the existence of this book the staff member concerned was told,
in no uncertain terms, to stop using it immediately."

Mr Broughton continued: "It certainly did appear that the manner in which the
claimant conducted matters fell considerably short of best practice but,
equally, he was working under intense pressure and delivering, it would appear,
a phenomenal quality and quantity of care to patients.

"That, it would appear, is something that the respondent completely lost sight
of and should, perhaps, have formed more of a principal focus of their
attention.

"The claimant was, from all the evidence that we heard, an extraordinary
orthodontist.

"We heard he somehow managed to see more than twice as many patients as his
peers and seemingly did so without any patient complaint and received several
plaudits.

"He appears to have been held in high regard by many and to have had an almost
impossible workload due to demand, the time critical nature of some of the
treatments, under-staffing and financial constraints."

A tribunal spokesman said an undisclosed award had since been made.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              456 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               The Saudi Gazette

                            January 25, 2016 Monday

Hospitals left to deal with newborns abandoned by mothers without IDs

LENGTH: 347  words


Saudi Gazette report

TAIF - The Ministry of Health has said there have been frequent cases of women
without legal IDs abandoning their newborns to avoid documentation
complications, Makkah Arabic newspaper reported.

Turaif Al-Aama, director of treatment services at the ministry, said both and
public hospitals have dealt with abandoned newborns because their mothers have
no legal documentation.

"There have been many cases of pregnant non-Saudi women who were admitted to
hospital for labor. After giving birth, they would flee the hospital leaving
their newborns without any papers or documentation to trace," said Al-Aama.

He said the interior minister had previously contacted the Ministry of Health
demanding a solution to the problem.

"The minister of health has ordered all maternity hospitals or hospitals with
maternity wards must increase their security. The hospitals must have at least
two labor rooms available for pregnant women with no identifications," said
Al-Aama.

He also said the hospitals should provide intensive security in these rooms to
ensure that the women will not escape.

"The women should also feel safe in these rooms and understand that they will
not be questioned while they are in labor. The Ministry of Health is now
implementing a policy of exclusive labor rooms for pregnant women without any
legal identification," said Al-Aama.

A source from Makkah Health Affairs has said implementing the new policy is not
a simple task.

"We need to find space for new labor rooms and we need to ensure that these
rooms are well maintained. Moreover, the labor rooms are in the women's
sections, which means we need to hire female security guards," said the source.

The source also said hospitals are not involved in determining the legal and
social status of mothers.

"The Ministry of Social Affairs should get involved by providing a shelter for
such women because it would be risky to deport them and their newborns
immediately after birth," said the source.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/10/145371093960.jpg

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/10/145371093960.jpg

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1526


                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              457 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              July 11, 2016 Monday

Hospital executives may keep top-ups;
Managers at National Maternity Hospital paid up to EUR 39,000 in addition to
salary

BYLINE: Martin Wall, Elaine Edwards

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 563 words


Talks are understood be under way which may see a number of senior personnel at
the National Maternity Hospital being permitted to retain salaries higher than
those officially sanctioned by the Health Service Executive.

The controversy dates back to 2013 when a HSE audit into top-up payments to
senior executives in voluntary hospitals and agencies funded by the exchequer -
known as section 38 bodies - found that additional money from private sources
was paid to three managers at the National Maternity Hospital.

The amounts ranged from EUR 30,000 to EUR 39,000 a year.

A document subsequently drawn up by the Department of Health said the privately
funded additional payments were made to the secretary manager, the director of
nursing and the financial controller at the hospital.

The source of the funding used to pay the top-ups - although never publicly
disclosed - is understood to be money paid to the hospital by insurers for
accommodating private patients in its facilities.

The hospital had said that neither funding from the State nor donations were
used to supplement executive pay.

The HSE said this weekend: "The National Maternity Hospital entered into a
process towards compliance in 2014 following the initiation of an internal
audit."

Legal obligation

A spokesman for the hospital said it had legal advice that it was contractually
obliged to pay current salaries.

"We have shared our legal advice with the HSE and shown them the relevant
contracts of employment, and are hopeful this will be now resolved
satisfactorily."

A number of other voluntary hospitals and health agencies have been allowed to
continue to make additional payments to senior staff on a "red-circled" or
individualised basis where there was a contractual commitment.

Last November, then minister for health Leo Varadkar said top-ups would be
retained for incumbents but that any future appointees would have to adhere to
public-sector pay policy.

Not compliant

Last Friday, the HSE said it did not consider the St John of God organisation to
be compliant with public pay policy in light of recent disclosures about
remuneration to senior staff.

Meanwhile, it has emerged that the Department of Health questioned the founder
of the Console charity, Paul Kelly, in 2011 on foot of concerns raised that he
had passed himself off several years ago as a hospital doctor.

RTÉ's This Week programme said it had been told by the department it had pursued
claims about Mr Kelly's past behaviour after being contacted by a parliamentary
assistant working for a TD.

The parliamentary assistant, Tommy Morris, had maintained Mr Kelly had obtained
a job as a casualty ward doctor in the 1980s under false pretences and spent
three weeks working on the ward until caught by gardaí.

Former minister for health James Reilly previously said he vaguely remembered
some issues about Mr Kelly being raised with him informally by Mr Morris, but he
said it was never put in writing and he knew no more about it. In a statement
last Sunday night the department confirmed it did examine the issues raised on
foot of concerns flagged by Mr Morris five years ago, at a time when Mr Reilly
was minister.

The interim chief executive of Console, David Hall, confirmed yesterday that
discussions were ongoing with a "number of parties" and the HSE in relation to
the continued provision of the suicide charity's services.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              458 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 2, 1999, Thursday

HOSPITAL ACCIDENT 'LEFT MAN CRIPPLED'

BYLINE: Dale Williams

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 244 words


A DUDLEY man claims he has been left crippled following an incident at a
hospital in which he was allegedly dropped by nurses.

Father-of-two Michael Sanders is embroiled in a legal battle for damages with
Dudley Hospitals NHS Trust.

The 56-year-old, of Westminster Close, said he was forced to use sticks to get
about and was in almost constant agony with back pain.

Mr Sanders, who has suffered from epileptic fits all his life, said the accident
happened about a year ago at Russells Hall Hospital.

He said: "My wife Sue took me to the hospital because I had started fitting.

"When I got there I was being held up by three nurses. I was standing and they
dropped me and I fell down, landing on a chair."

He said in the fall he suffered a fracture to the base of his spine and two
slipped discs.

Granted

He added: "I have been granted legal aid of about pounds 2,000 to fight the
case, but that is fast running out.

"What I really need is the funds to buy an electric wheelchair, but they are too
costly to afford at the moment."

Mr Sanders added: "I have been told by solicitors that this legal claim could
drag on for some time - about three years was the last estimate for it to be
resolved."

A spokesman for Dudley Hospitals confirmed that a claim against the trust had
been submitted by Mr Sanders.

"Because the case is ongoing it would be inappropriate to comment. The matter is
in the hands of our solicitors."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LEGAL BATTLE: Father-of-two Michael Sanders

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              459 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              March 12, 1996, Tuesday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Tampa General hunt for chief starts over

BYLINE: MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 537 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Tainted by bad legal advice, a nationwide search for a new president of Tampa
General Hospital was scrapped Monday.

Instead, hospital board members voted to start over again Friday, using  legal
advice from the same lawyer who created the legal mess.

The public board, with some confusion, rejected a bid to fire the Tampa law
firm of Allen, Dell, Frank & Trinkle, whose lawyers had erroneously approved
the first process that violated Florida's open government laws.

Board member Pat Frank reasoned that after making so many errors, attorney  Mike
Brown should be familiar with the law.

Brown abruptly left the hospital after a closed-door session in which board
members questioned his abilities and raised issues of his firm's liability for
the costly mistakes. He later refused to comment.

Two of the three finalists said Monday the delay has not tempered their
interest in the job.

"Those things happen," said finalist Dan Couch, 58, deputy executive  director
of Truman Medical Center in Kansas City, Mo. "I think there are a  lot of things
going for Tampa General. The real question is, is everybody  ready to jump on
board and move ahead?"

The board was scheduled to learn more about the finalists Monday, but the
process unraveled after the Times sued to make their names public.

Brown later admitted last week in a private meeting that he erred by  approving
a secret screening process. The search was deemed illegal because  the board
delegated a portion of the decision-making process to a committee  that met out
of public view.

However, the aborted search has not ended the legal wranglings.

Hillsborough Circuit Judge Manuel Menendez Monday gave the consultant who
conducted the search until 10 a.m. Thursday to give job applicants an
opportunity to prove that disclosing their names could hurt them.

The adage "justice delayed is justice denied is very appropriate," he  said,
since his ruling denied access for another 72 hours.

"This is a very complex and treacherous process and it takes an expert to
clearly define parameters," Karl said. "I would be more comfortable if we  had a
legal adviser who specializes in this field."

Consultant Ed French was represented by Tampa lawyer Rob Williams, the  former
hospital board chairman who led the failed attempt in 1989 to privatize  Tampa
General. Williams agreed in a hearing Monday that the public has a right  to the
records, but said releasing names would violate the privacy rights of  the
candidates.

While more than 275 resumes were mailed to him, French later said in a
deposition that he only maintained a list of about 50 serious candidates,
including 16 finalists who flew at the hospital's expense to interviews in
Atlanta and Scottsdale, Ariz. The hospital board, which will decide on a new
search process Friday, has not yet sought to obtain those records.

French and board chairwoman Phyllis Busansky called three finalists Monday  to
apologize for the botched search and urge the candidates to reapply for the
job. All three, who were recruited by French for the Tampa General job, are  top
hospital executives with stellar reputations in the healthcare industry.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              460 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                       August 28, 2017 Monday 5:11 PM GMT

Hospital campaigners set for legal action to save Huddersfield Royal Infirmary;

Hands Off HRI is urging people to attend a public meeting to hear the case for
their legal bid

BYLINE: By Henryk Zientek

LENGTH: 484 words


Campaigners opposing a major shake-up of hospital services are set to launch
legal action at a public meeting this week.

Leaders of Hands Off HRI are urging residents ofHuddersfieldand surrounding
areas to attend the "milestone" public meeting at 7pm on Thursday (Aug 31) at
the Methodist Mission on Lord Street in Huddersfield to get an update on the
campaign and hear legal advice from campaign solicitors Irwin Mitchell.

Calderdale and HuddersfieldNHS Foundation Trustplans to axe the A&E department
atHuddersfield Royal Infirmary, replace the 400-bed hospital with a 64-bed
"planned care" facility and transfer capacity toCalderdale Royal Hospitalin
Halifax which will be expanded to have 676 beds.

Objectors say the decision taken by Kirklees Joint Health Scrutiny Panel on July
21 to refer the plans to health minister Jeremy Hunt and the Independent
Reconfiguration Panel (IRP) had thrown up a huge number of questions about what
this would mean for the communities of Greater Huddersfield and Calderdale in
West Yorkshire.

Disabled people say they will suffer if controversial hospital changes go ahead

Irwin Mitchell leading solicitor Yogi Amin will address the meeting and the
first hour will be given over to questions and answers from the floor.

Hands Off HRI said his advice would include a very clear statement that the
Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) had overstepped the mark by approving the
final business case to downgrade and shut Huddersfield hospital services without
any clear financial or clinical evidence to back it up.

Hands Off HRI would now need to decide whether or not to formally launch a legal
case against the CCG and to hold their proposals to account. Mr Amin would set
out the case for instigating legal proceedings and all the costs of proceeding
with legal action.

The meeting will also be addressed by Adrian O'Malley, of trade union Unison,
which recently backed the campaign with a £500 donation for the successful
sponsored walk last week.

MPs join Huddersfield hospital campaigners to spread message to Dewsbury

A spokesperson for Hands Off HRI said: "We have been out in Huddersfield town
centre every week leafleting and collecting signatures since councillors
referred the whole process to Jeremy Hunt and the Independent Reconfiguration
Panel.

"In spite of the decision by Kirklees andCalderdalecouncillors, theGreater
Huddersfield CCGhas approved the final business case to downgrade HRI and shut
our A&E regardless. This has created a lot of public anger but also public
confusion about what is actually happening.

"We hope the meeting can address all these questions and of course decide what
we now need to do to take our campaign forward. To continue to maintain the
fantastic support people have given this campaign, it's very important everyone
is kept informed about the future of their hospital."

Crowds outside Huddersfield Town Hall for Hands Off HRI protest

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2017 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              461 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 22, 1988 Thursday

Who owns heart valve is issue in lawsuit

BYLINE: JOAN BRECKENRIDGE; GAM

LENGTH: 597 words


BY  JOAN BRECKENRIDGE
 The Globe and Mail
  A coming legal battle over a Bjork-Shiley heart valve is expected to set
a precedent for determining who owns these surgically implanted devices in
Canada.

The case revolves around a lawsuit that was launched on Tuesday against
Toronto General Hospital to gain possession of the mechanical heart valve,
which broke apart and killed an Ontario woman last year.

The legal action was started in the District Court of Ontario by John
Judge, the common-law husband of 46-year-old Joyous DeBock , who died
instantly in May, 1987, when the strut of her heart valve broke off.

"Toronto General Hospital is telling me they own the valve and they
want it," said Brian Evans, Mr. Judge's lawyer.

Toronto General Hospital implanted the device in Ms DeBock. The suit
contends that Mr. Judge is the owner of the Bjork-Shiley 21-millimetre,
70-degree aortic heart valve, which is currently in the possession of the
Ontario chief coroner's office.

The valve was an exhibit at a coroner's inquest into the DeBock death
in Toronto last September. Deputy chief coroner James Young has told the
warring parties that he will give the heart valve to whomever the court
awards it.

Pierre Blais, a research scientist with the federal Bureau of Radiation
and Medical Devices and an expert on Bjork-Shiley valves, said this is the
first case he knows of in Canada where a hospital has claimed legal
ownership of a heart valve.

When it comes to the issue of who owns implanted medical devices such
as heart valves, "Canada appears to have no jurisprudence in this area,"
he said from Ottawa yesterday.

Mr. Blais said that in the United States patients pay for medical
devices so they own them. Because Canada has socialized medicine, either
the government, the patient or the hospital could own the device, he said.
"It's an area that's appropiate for legal debate."

Mr. Judge and surviving members of Ms DeBock's family have launched
another legal action in California alleging, amongst other things,
negligence on the part of the U.S. manufacturer of the valve, Shiley
Incorporated.

For the California suit to go ahead, Mr. Evans said, the heart valve
must be returned to its owner, his client, so it can be tested by experts
to prove the allegation that Shiley was negligent in its manufacture.

Alison LeBrocq, a spokesman for Toronto General Hospital, said the
hospital wants the coroner's office to hold on to the valve until the
court determines ownership "so that it's not subjected to any tampering or
damage".

Because of the lawsuit launched in California, Ms LeBrocq said, the
goal of the hospital is to make certain that the heart valve remains
intact so that all the interested parties can test it to determine why it
broke apart.

In a letter to Mr. Evans dated March 17 of this year, J.A. Sawers, a
lawyer for the hospital, stated that "if you are prepared to draft the
appropriate documents releasing the hospital from any future civil action
we would be prepared to consider releasing the Debock Bjorg-Shiley (sic)
heart valve."

Mr. Blais said the Bureau of Radiation and Medical Devices sent a
medical alert notice to hospitals, cardiologists and physicians who care
for cardiac patients on August 20, 1982, telling them that Bjork-Shiley
valves, including the one Ms DeBock was given, were susceptible to
fracture.

Ms DeBock's heart valve was implanted on or about Nov. 17, 1982, at
Toronto General Hospital, according to the statement of claim filed in the
Ontario District Court.

On June 8, 1983, Shiley Incorporated recalled all series and sizes of
the Bjork-Shiley 70-degree convexo-concave heart valves.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              462 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly

                                  June 6, 2005

U.S. Magistrate Judges Case Summaries: June 6, 2005

BYLINE: Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1506  words


Civil Practice

Deposition - Hospital

Where a defendant hospital seeks a protective order to prevent or significantly
restrict a deposition in a case brought under the Emergency Medical Treatment
and Active Labor Act, the hospital's motion must be denied despite the fact that
the plaintiffs intend to inquire into "opinions and subjective beliefs. "

Scope Of Deposition

"Although the [defendant South County] Hospital vigorously argues that
Plaintiff's Rule 30(b)(6) deposition notice impermissibly seeks discovery as to
legal conclusions and not facts relevant to Plaintiff's EMTALA claims, it does
not cite any legal precedent in support of its argument. This Court has
conducted independent research which reveals that a Rule 30(b)(6) witness may be
subject to questioning regarding an entity's 'opinions and subjective beliefs. '
...

"The Hospital has simply not met its 'heavy burden' under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c)
for an order barring or 'severely' limiting Plaintiff's Second Rule 30(b)(6)
deposition. Plaintiff's Second Amended Complaint contains specific claims
alleging that the Hospital is subject to EMTALA and that EMTALA's requirements
were violated in connection with the care and treatment received by the minor
patient through the Hospital' s Emergency Department. The Hospital has proffered
denials to most of the allegations related to Plaintiff's EMTALA claims
including a denial of the Hospital's status as a 'covered hospital. ' The
Hospital has also left Plaintiff 'to her proof' as to whether the minor
patient's head injury was an 'emergency medical condition' under EMTALA.
Plaintiff is entitled to discovery relevant to her EMTALA claims under Fed. R.
Civ. P. 26(b)(1) and, as discussed above, is entitled to inquire as to the areas
identified in the Rule 30(b)(6) deposition notice even if they may relate in
part to legal issues. In reaching this conclusion, this Court, of course, offers
no opinion as to the ultimate admissibility of any such 'opinion testimony' at
trial. ... In addition, the Hospital maintains its right to present objections
at the deposition, as appropriate, to preserve its position. "

Wadenstein v. South County Hospital, et al. (Lawyers Weekly No. 54-050-05) (5
pages) (Almond, U.S.M.J.) (C.A. No. 04-326S) (May 27, 2005).

Education

Individualized Education Plan - 'FAPE'

Where the parents of a special education student have appealed a school
district's transfer of the student to a newly instituted clinical day program,
the parents should be awarded summary judgment on the ground that the transfer
does not meet the "free appropriate public education" standard.

Magistrate Judge's Reasoning

"Before this Court are Cross-Motions for Summary Judgment (Document Nos. 23 and
25) pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 56 filed in February and March 2005. The parties
are the Chariho Regional School District and John and Jane Doe, on behalf of
their minor son John Doe (collectively the 'Family'). This matter has been
referred to me for report and recommendation. 28 U.S.C. Sect. 636(b)(1)(B);
Local Rule of Court 32(c). A hearing was held on May 5, 2005. After reviewing
the Administrative Record and Memoranda submitted, listening to the arguments of
counsel and conducting my own independent research, I recommend that Chariho's
Motion for Summary Judgment be denied and the Family's Motion for Summary
Judgment be granted. ...

"On April 13, 2004, the Family and Chariho each requested an impartial
due-process hearing regarding the implementation of John's IEP. Six hearing days
were held in May and June 2004. The Hearing Officer issued her decision on
August 2, 2004 finding, in relevant part, that (1) Chariho had the burden of
proof since it was seeking to change the student's placement; (2) moving the
student from the [South Shore School to [Reaching Youth through Support and
Education] was a change in 'educational placement' and not simply a location
change; (3) any claimed procedural violations by Chariho did not affect the
outcome in significant and prejudicial ways; and (4) placement of the student in
the RYSE program would provide him with a free appropriate public education
('FAPE'). ...

"Both parties have appealed the Hearing Officer's Decision. Chariho disputes her
finding that the proposed transfer from the SSS to RYSE was a 'change in
educational placement' but does not dispute her conclusion, placing the ultimate
burden of proof on Chariho regarding the appropriateness of the proposed
transfer. The Family disputes her procedural and substantive findings as to the
provision of a FAPE to John. For the reasons discussed below, this Court
concludes that the Hearing Officer's determination as to a 'change in education
placement' is legally correct and supported by the record and should be affirmed
but that her FAPE determination is legally erroneous and factually unsupported
by the record and should be reversed. ...

"Based on a review of the entire record and John's history, this Court concludes
that the Hearing Officer's decision as to a FAPE is not legally correct and not
supported by the record and thus, should be reversed. This conclusion should not
in any way be taken as a condemnation of the RYSE program. As noted above, the
record supports a conclusion that RYSE is a strong and innovative program.
However, this Court concludes that while RYSE may be appropriate for most
emotionally disturbed students, it is not an appropriate placement for John
under the specific and ... unique circumstances of his situation. ...

"John is a student who apparently needs and has benefitted from the stable
environment he has been provided at the SSS. The Hearing Officer recognized that
he is 'succeeding academically' at the SSS and is 'happy there. ' ... John is
not a ping-pong ball. He is a boy who has already been bounced around too much
in his life. While Chariho may well be correct that its RYSE program can support
someone with John's needs, the focus ... should be on the disabled child.
Chariho was part of the decision to place John at the SSS . The fact that John
happened to enroll at Chariho during a transitional period when RYSE was being
established is not a valid reason by itself to interfere with the IEPs developed
for John at the SSS in December 2002 and March 2003. While the record
establishes that the RYSE program has the potential to meet the needs of many,
if not most, of Chariho's special education students, it simply does not meet
John's unique set of needs under the particular circumstances and history of his
case. ...

"For the reasons stated, I recommend that Chariho's Motion for Summary Judgment
(Document No. 23) be denied and the Family's Motion for Summary Judgment
(Document No. 25) be granted and that the District Court conclude that the
Hearing Officer's determination as to a 'change in educational placement' is
legally correct and supported by the record and should be affirmed but that her
FAPE determination is legally incorrect and factually unsupported by the record
and should be reversed. "

Doe, et al. v. Chariho Regional School District (Lawyers Weekly No. 54-049-05)
(16 pages) (Almond, U.S.M.J.) (C.A. No. 04-375L) (May 27, 2005).

Social Services

Disability Insurance Benefits

Where a plaintiff has appealed an administrative law judge's denial of the
plaintiff's application for disability insurance benefits, the appeal must fail,
as the plaintiff has demonstrated no reversible error on the part of the ALJ.

"The ALJ found that the claims presented by the plaintiff were not supported by
the record and were not deemed to be credible to the extent alleged. The ALJ
also found that the plaintiff maintained the residual functional capacity to
perform light work although she was restricted from lifting more than 20 pounds
occasionally and could lift up to 10 pounds on a regular basis. The plaintiff
was also determined to be restricted by a moderate impairment in her ability to
concentrate and to attend to work tasks on a sustained basis and could have only
minimal interaction with co-workers and supervisors. ...

"I find that there is substantial evidence in this record to support the
Commissioner's final decision. I find no basis for concluding that the ALJ
failed to evaluate the entire record properly. She exhaustively outlined
plaintiff's testimony. She was equally complete in summarizing the substantial
medical evidence. She correctly concluded that the medical evidence did not
support a finding of disability. The ALJ is not bound by plaintiff's
self-serving allegations ... and may reject them where, as here, the testimony
is unsupported by the whole medical evidence and where the medical conditions
would not reasonably be expected to produce the limitations alleged. ... The ALJ
thoroughly considered the evidence of record in reaching her credibility
finding, and that finding is entitled to deference. ... I find no error on the
part of the ALJ in applying these standards. "

Fielder v. Barnhart (Lawyers Weekly No. 54-048-05) (20 pages) (Lovegreen,
U.S.M.J.) (CA 03-513LO) (May 27, 2005).

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           February 14, 2005, Monday

ORGAN SCANDAL PARENTS COULD BE FACING LEGAL FIGHT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 265 words


PARENTS whose dead babies' organs were removed and stored without their
permission could be facing a legal fight.

But the court action will not affect the majority of Merseyside parents whose
children were caught up in the Alder Hey organs scandal.

Their legal fight was resolved in September 2002.

More than 1, 000 parents are fighting for compensation from the NHS after their
children's body parts were retained by hospitals across the UK.

The high court ruled last year that many hospitals had broken the law over organ
retention and offered families a total of £3. 3m in damages.

Now a row has broken out over the payment of legal fees which could mean
families are out of pocket after they have paid their legal costs.

Most parents have an average legal bill of £1, 618.

In an e-mail newsletter the Legal Services Commission, which funds legal aid,
warned families they may receive less than they first thought.

Solicitor Ian Cohen, who was involved in the legal fight following the Alder Hey
scandal, said: "The vast majority of parents from Merseyside involved in
litigation settled their case.

"A few joined a national group litigation and their case went to court in March
2004.

"It is these parents who are involved. "

Body parts from hundreds of dead children were retained at Alder Hey children's
hospital over several decades.

The Redfern Inquiry exposed Dutch pathologist Professor Dick van Velzen, who
lied to parents, forged research applications and ordered retention of every
organ. He will not face criminal prosecution.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd


                              464 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Children's heart surgery units are thrown a lifeline;
Review ordered of controversial closure decision

BYLINE: Martin Barrow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 539 words


The children's heart surgery unit at the Royal Brompton Hospital was given hope
yesterday when the Health Secretary ordered a review into a decision to
streamline paediatric heart services.

Jeremy Hunt has asked the Independent Reconfiguration Panel to reassess the
decision to close units at Leeds General Infirmary and Glenfield Hospital,
Leicester, as well as the Royal Brompton in Chelsea.

The move has echoes of the ill-fated awarding of the West Coast Main Line
franchise to FirstGroup, which was challenged by Virgin, the current operator.
"Technical flaws" were found in the bidding process, with millions of pounds of
taxpayers' money likely to be paid out in compensation.

The new look at the children's heart service decision comes after a number of
legal challenges were launched, raising the prospect of a series of judicial
reviews.

Councillors in Lincolnshire and Leicestershire contacted Mr Hunt with concerns
about the closure of the unit at Glenfield. Earlier this month, a campaign group
fighting to keep the Leeds unit open launched legal proceedings against NHS
officials who made the decision. Save Our Surgery said that it had filed for a
judicial review against the Joint Committee of Primary Care Trusts' decision to
close the unit.

A Department of Health spokesman confirmed that Mr Hunt had asked the
Independent Reconfiguration Panel to conduct a full review of the Safe and
Sustainable review of Children's Congenital Heart Services.

In July it was announced that the hospitals would stop performing the specialist
surgery to streamline paediatric congenital cardiac surgery services.

Officials decided to close the units after an NHS review concluded that
expertise was spread too thinly and should be concentrated in fewer hospitals.
The Safe and Sustainable review followed the inquiry into children's heart
surgery at Bristol Royal Infirmary between 1990 and 1995, where up to 35
children and babies died as a result of poor care.

After the inquiry, it was recommended that paediatric cardiac units be set a
target for the number of operations per year, and that surgery be concentrated
in specialist centres to ensure quality of care.

The institutions that will house the specialist surgery centres are: Evelina
Hospital, which is part of Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital Trust in London; Great
Ormond Street in London; Southampton General Hospital; Birmingham Children's
Hospital; Bristol Royal Hospital for Children; the Freeman Hospital in
Newcastle; and Alder Hey Children's Hospital in Liverpool.

Last night a spokesman for Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Foundation Trust,
which failed in an earlier legal challenge, said: "We are delighted to hear that
the Secretary of State for Health has asked for a full review of the Safe and
Sustainable review of children's congenital heart services. We hope that this
new review offers a real chance to re-consider the significant damage to patient
care that will result if children's heart surgery and intensive care are removed
from Royal Brompton Hospital.

"We look forward to a thorough review of all the facts, in a truly independent
context, and will of course co-operate fully with the Independent
Reconfiguration Panel."

The panel is due to report back by February.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Evelina Hospital is one of those that will perform specialist
surgery
The Royal Brompton mounted a legal challenge to attempts at streamlining

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              465 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              THE DAILY TELEGRAPH

                            December 30, 2005 Friday
                                 State Edition

Doctor's threat to hospital - Desperate bid to save a dying patient's life

BYLINE: ANDREW CARSWELL

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 354  words


A MAN dying from a brain haemorrhage was only admitted to a Sydney hospital
after his doctor threatened legal action, his son claimed yesterday.

Bernard Pozo was rushed to Campbelltown Hospital after collapsing at a local
club last Thursday.

He arrived at 8.30pm in a critical condition and had to wait four hours for a
bed and access to a neurosurgeon -- finally found 50km away at St George
Hospital.

But according to Mr Pozo's son Robert, the 64-year-old was only admitted to St
George when the family doctor threatened legal action.

Mr Pozo was flown to St George at 2.30am, but died at 1.30pm that day.

Set to bury his father today, Robert Pozo believes the ''agonising'' wait to see
a neurosurgeon cost him his life.

He predicted many more families would needlessly suffer similar tragedies till
the State Government fixed a ''sick health system''.

''The delay was ridiculous. I'm stunned and devastated ...'' he said. ''They did
the CAT scan and told us it was a serious brain haemorrhage around 9.30pm. He
was flown to St George at 2.30am. That tells the story.

''What we went through, no-one should have to go through that. But I fear they
will unless the government prioritises its sick health system.''

While enjoying a night out at the Campbelltown RSL, the grandfather started to
complain of headaches, broke into a sweat and vomited.

''The doctor knew it was urgent. He was pleading with hospitals to take him and
at one stage said to the St George Hospital 'I will take legal action if you
don't take him'.

''They finally relented.''

Mr Pozo's death comes two years after a Health Care Complaints Commission found
serious concerns at the number of deaths and patient care at Campbelltown and
Camden hospitals.

Campbelltown Hospital general manager Amanda Larkin told The Daily Telegraph
last week there was ''no evidence of unreasonable delay or inadequate care'' for
Mr Pozo.


Family claims:

Critically ill Bernard Pozo was only given access to a neurosurgeon after his
family doctor threatened legal action

Hospital claims:

''No evidence of unreasonable delay or inadequate care'' for Mr Pozo on the part
of Campbelltown Hospital

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            August 6, 2014 Wednesday

Restaurant, health facility being operated in same building

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: PANCHTHAR


PANCHTHAR, Aug. 6 -- In an utter disregard to the legal system, a hospital and
restaurant have been found operating on the same building.Despite the government
having banned the sale and use of alcohol and tobacco products within 100 metres
of medical and academic institutions, the restaurant with a bar is under the
same roof of that of the hospital for a year.

While 'Hotel Prashant Restaurant and Lodge' occupies the third and fourth floor,
the second floor houses Nepal SBI Bank with Pathivara Health Care Hospital on
the remaining floors of the building located along the Mechi Highway adjacent to
the District Traffic Police Office. Moreover, the hospital is

surrounded by a dozen shops selling various products.

"It is surprising to witness the sale of alcohol and tobacco products in the
building that has a health care facility," said local Ek Raj Bhandari, adding
that the situation was the consequence of the weak legal system and negligence
of concerned authorities.

The locals claimed that the situation was no different at the District Hospital,
and vented ire at the concerned authorities for failing to bring to book those
operating their business against the law.

Meanwhile, hospital operator Sumesh Udas claimed that the restaurant and
hospital had been operating from the same building as there was no provision in
the law which states that the two cannot operate from the same building. "As
there are several hospitals running in a similar condition the government cannot
just single us out," Udas said. However, despite his claims that the hospital
was established before the restaurant, the surrounding shops were found to have
been operating long before the establishment of the hospital.

Expressing confusion over the course of action to be taken, District Public
Health Office chief Dr Pawan Jung Rayamajhi said the legal provision was vague
and that they had sought proper interpretation of the issue from the concerned
department. Rayamajhi said that they would further discuss on possible actions
to be taken once they receive directives from the centre.

Rayamajhi further said that the hospital only had 15 beds as opposed to the
mandatory provision of requiring a minimum of 25 beds and that the pharmacy
within the

hospital premises was not its own and instead run by an individual. Meanwhile,
Assistant Chief District Officer Yagya Acharya said as the issue was related to
human health, they had asked the DPHO and small industries around the area to
furnish a report on the matter.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              467 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 23, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GREAT PROFIT IMPORTANCE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 369 words


JFK Medical Center in Atlantis and Delray Medical Center, both for-profit
hospitals, have embarrassed themselves by continuing a six-year losing battle to
keep not-for-profit Bethesda Healthcare System from expanding.

The hospitals have filed motions for a rehearing before the 4th District Court
of Appeal, which last month approved Bethesda's plan to build an 80-bed,
$80million hospital west of Boynton Beach. The sore losers are hoping that the
Florida Supreme Court will hear the case on the grounds that it is of "great
public importance."

The appeal is expected to delay Bethesda's plans to build the hospital by at
least another year, which will keep more patients going to JFK and Delray.
"Every day there is a delay is another day that patients out in west Boynton who
may have wanted to have closer access to a hospital will have to go to a
hospital further away," said Bethesda's attorney, John Parker. "I can assure you
that one day's gains from having patients will far exceed their one day's worth
of legal fees."

In 2003 and 2007, state regulators approved Bethesda's hospital at Boynton Beach
Boulevard and U.S. 441. Both times, competitors Wellington Regional Medical
Center, JFK and Delray have fought the project in court. They argue that the
hospital would worsen shortages of doctors and nurses and increase overall
health costs.

Bethesda has long argued that people living west of Boynton need quicker access
to medical care, particularly for emergencies. An administrative law judge
agreed. So did the appeals court. Yet JFK and Delray refuse to concede.
Wellington Regional has not yet joined this latest battle in futility.

Mr. Parker said an amendment approved by the Legislature last year to the law
governing certificates of need for new hospitals will severely restrict future
legal battles. The amendment requires that parties appealing a final order that
grants a new hospital pay the winning hospital's legal fees and costs up to $1
million if they lose the appeal.

Since this case has been about money, JFK, Delray and Wellington would have been
far less likely to keep up this fight had the law been in effect sooner. The
courts can help by rushing this appeal and reaching the same ruling.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              468 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Donors left without answers;
Now that South Coast Medical Center dissolved its foundation, some wonder what
will happen to its assets, worth $15 million.

BYLINE: By KELLI HART; The Orange County Register

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. Cover_B

LENGTH: 856 words


Following the dissolution of South Coast Medical Center's foundation, former
foundation members, hospital donors and community members are now wondering what
will become of the foundation's assets.

Adventist Health on Nov. 14 announced St. Joseph Health System as the selected
bidder for the Laguna Beach hospital. The morning of the selection, Adventist
Health and South Coast CEO Bruce Christian dissolved the foundation in a
closed-door meeting, leaving board members stunned and confused, said hospital
donor and three-year foundation member Susan Morrison.

"We left the room kind of shell-shocked," Morrison said.

At issue is what will become of the foundation's $15 million in assets,
including the hospital's $9.7 million Medical Office Building, which became
property of Adventist Health, a nonprofit organization stationed in Roseville
that helps operate health care facilities.

Now that the foundation no longer exists, Adventist Health has legal right to
sweep those assets, said Jerry Peters, Adventist Health's attorney.

Foundation members and major donors now fear that the assets they raised for the
foundation will not be used to benefit the hospital in the way that they had
intended.

Peters said that an affiliation agreement signed 10 years ago allows the medical
center and Adventist Health to assume the foundation's assets.

The charitable foundation was established in 1976 to encourage donations to the
hospital and to fund projects and upgrades.

The affiliation agreement, signed by foundation members and Adventist Health,
stated that the foundation and the medical center would stay separate entities
but would merge if the hospital could not stay open on its own, according to
legal documents. The agreement also states the foundation's assets would be
available to Adventist Health for assuming the challenge of saving the medical
center from closure, which it has been doing the past 10 years, according to
Peters and legal documents.

The affiliation agreement in 2006 became "moot" when the foundation transferred
its membership to the medical center, Peters said by e-mail.

"Since that date, SCMC has had the legal right to merge the foundation into
SCMC, thereby assuming control over all of the foundation's assets," Peters
said. "This merger did not happen as a function of the affiliation agreement,
but instead is a function of the articles and bylaws of the foundation (and
California nonprofit law)."

Morrison said other foundation members and donors like herself feel slighted now
that their donated money could potentially be used toward Adventist Health's
other hospitals or to pay the medical center's debts.

Morrison also said that Christian told foundation members a month ago that, even
though the legal language existed allowing the medical center and Adventist
Health to take the foundation's assets, they would never try to do that.

Christian is out of state and unavailable for comment.

After Adventist Health announced St. Joseph Health System as the medical
center's bidder, the pending sale transaction was sent to the state Attorney
General's Office for approval. Peters said that the use of the foundation's
assets will be decided by the attorney general.

"The attorney general looks to make sure that the assets are best used in a way
that helps the community, but we cannot tell you exactly what that is until
after we file our notice with the attorney general," Peters said.

Of the assets in question, community members are concerned that the unrestricted
funds -- funds that were donated to the hospital and not designated for any
specific use -- will be used to pay off the medical center's debts. A legal memo
states that the medical center sustained a total net loss of $44.7 million from
1998 to August 2008. The memo also states that Adventist Health covered those
losses by borrowing money from its other affiliated hospitals.

Restricted funds are designated for a specific purpose, such as a donation made
to improve the radiology program. Unrestricted funds have no outlined purpose
and the money can be used toward any hospital operations.

Peters said that the attorney general will examine the unrestricted funds,
restricted funds and liabilities of the medical center and determine how the
assets will be dispersed.

"SCMC will be required to use its unrestricted assets first to pay off its
debts," Peters said.

Once the attorney general has approved the sale transaction, they will include a
list of conditions to accompany the sale. These conditions could include the use
of restricted funds, according to Peters.

In a similar transaction, the attorney general approved the sale of Paradise
Valley Hospital in San Diego also under Adventist Health, in February 2007 and
conditionally required that Adventist Health deposit $3 million into a
restricted fund to support healthcare services to the hospital's patients.

Peters said that the attorney general will hold a public hearing 60 days after
the transaction was submitted to hear the community's input on the distribution
of assets.

The CT scanner room at South Coast Medical Center in Laguna Beach.

949-454-7391 or  khart@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              469 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Donors left without answers;
Now that South Coast Medical Center dissolved its foundation, some wonder what
will happen to its assets, worth $15 million.

BYLINE: By KELLI HART; The Orange County Register

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. Cover_B

LENGTH: 856 words


Following the dissolution of South Coast Medical Center's foundation, former
foundation members, hospital donors and community members are now wondering what
will become of the foundation's assets.

Adventist Health on Nov. 14 announced St. Joseph Health System as the selected
bidder for the Laguna Beach hospital. The morning of the selection, Adventist
Health and South Coast CEO Bruce Christian dissolved the foundation in a
closed-door meeting, leaving board members stunned and confused, said hospital
donor and three-year foundation member Susan Morrison.

"We left the room kind of shell-shocked," Morrison said.

At issue is what will become of the foundation's $15 million in assets,
including the hospital's $9.7 million Medical Office Building, which became
property of Adventist Health, a nonprofit organization stationed in Roseville
that helps operate health care facilities.

Now that the foundation no longer exists, Adventist Health has legal right to
sweep those assets, said Jerry Peters, Adventist Health's attorney.

Foundation members and major donors now fear that the assets they raised for the
foundation will not be used to benefit the hospital in the way that they had
intended.

Peters said that an affiliation agreement signed 10 years ago allows the medical
center and Adventist Health to assume the foundation's assets.

The charitable foundation was established in 1976 to encourage donations to the
hospital and to fund projects and upgrades.

The affiliation agreement, signed by foundation members and Adventist Health,
stated that the foundation and the medical center would stay separate entities
but would merge if the hospital could not stay open on its own, according to
legal documents. The agreement also states the foundation's assets would be
available to Adventist Health for assuming the challenge of saving the medical
center from closure, which it has been doing the past 10 years, according to
Peters and legal documents.

The affiliation agreement in 2006 became "moot" when the foundation transferred
its membership to the medical center, Peters said by e-mail.

"Since that date, SCMC has had the legal right to merge the foundation into
SCMC, thereby assuming control over all of the foundation's assets," Peters
said. "This merger did not happen as a function of the affiliation agreement,
but instead is a function of the articles and bylaws of the foundation (and
California nonprofit law)."

Morrison said other foundation members and donors like herself feel slighted now
that their donated money could potentially be used toward Adventist Health's
other hospitals or to pay the medical center's debts.

Morrison also said that Christian told foundation members a month ago that, even
though the legal language existed allowing the medical center and Adventist
Health to take the foundation's assets, they would never try to do that.

Christian is out of state and unavailable for comment.

After Adventist Health announced St. Joseph Health System as the medical
center's bidder, the pending sale transaction was sent to the state Attorney
General's Office for approval. Peters said that the use of the foundation's
assets will be decided by the attorney general.

"The attorney general looks to make sure that the assets are best used in a way
that helps the community, but we cannot tell you exactly what that is until
after we file our notice with the attorney general," Peters said.

Of the assets in question, community members are concerned that the unrestricted
funds -- funds that were donated to the hospital and not designated for any
specific use -- will be used to pay off the medical center's debts. A legal memo
states that the medical center sustained a total net loss of $44.7 million from
1998 to August 2008. The memo also states that Adventist Health covered those
losses by borrowing money from its other affiliated hospitals.

Restricted funds are designated for a specific purpose, such as a donation made
to improve the radiology program. Unrestricted funds have no outlined purpose
and the money can be used toward any hospital operations.

Peters said that the attorney general will examine the unrestricted funds,
restricted funds and liabilities of the medical center and determine how the
assets will be dispersed.

"SCMC will be required to use its unrestricted assets first to pay off its
debts," Peters said.

Once the attorney general has approved the sale transaction, they will include a
list of conditions to accompany the sale. These conditions could include the use
of restricted funds, according to Peters.

In a similar transaction, the attorney general approved the sale of Paradise
Valley Hospital in San Diego also under Adventist Health, in February 2007 and
conditionally required that Adventist Health deposit $3 million into a
restricted fund to support healthcare services to the hospital's patients.

Peters said that the attorney general will hold a public hearing 60 days after
the transaction was submitted to hear the community's input on the distribution
of assets.

The CT scanner room at South Coast Medical Center in Laguna Beach.

949-454-7391 or  khart@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              470 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         Mail Tribune (Medford, Oregon)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

Hospitals end legal fight over imaging center: Providence will acquire Asante's
share of former joint medical venture

BYLINE: Bill Kettler, Mail Tribune, Medford, Ore.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 571 words


Apr. 28--Medford's two hospitals have reached an accord ending a long legal
battle over their partnership in the region's largest medical imaging service.

Providence Medford Medical Center will acquire Asante Health System's share of
Oregon Advanced Imaging, the joint venture the hospitals started in 2002 along
with the physicians of Medford Radiological Group. Oregon Advanced Imaging
provides medical images such as MRI and PET scans at its offices in Navigators
Landing, near the Medford airport.

Providence will continue to operate the OAI partnership with Medford
Radiological Group, and the physicians will continue to own 18 percent of the
venture. Providence will buy Asante's 43.5 percent share of the business.
Asante, the parent company for Rogue Valley Medical Center, will purchase the
MRI unit at RVMC that was part of the joint OAI venture and operate it
independently.

The hospitals took the case to mediation in November 2009 after Jackson County
Circuit Court Judge Mark Schiveley said he would appoint a receiver to dissolve
the partnership if the parties could not resolve their disputes on their own.

The ownership change will be effective Aug. 1, said Scott Kelly, chief strategy
officer for Asante. Kelly said the parties agreed not to disclose the financial
terms of the agreement.

"I'm glad we came to an agreement that's fair to everyone," Kelly said.

Tom Hanenburg, chief executive for Providence Health and Services in Southern
Oregon, said the settlement shows "you can always work out your disagreements."

Kelly said RVMC will continue to be a good partner in OAI until the dissolution
date. He said other imaging alternatives, such as the MRI equipment at Medford
Medical Clinic, will be available for RVMC patients after the dissolution takes
effect.

RVMC also may evaluate whether it needs to acquire more imaging technology, he
said.

The settlement ends a nearly three-year legal battle between the two hospitals
over the future of the medical imaging center.

Providence sued Asante for breach of contract in July 2007 after Asante
announced that it would end its participation in the joint venture.

Documents introduced in court indicated that Asante had made a verbal commitment
in January 2007 to extend the agreement for five years, but no documents had
been signed. OAI executives testified that, on the strength of that verbal
agreement, they invested some $2.5 million to buy a new MRI with more power than
other scanners in the region.

Schiveley originally gave the hospitals three months to work out an agreement.
He extended the Feb. 1 deadline when the parties reported they were near
agreement.

In his November 2009 ruling, Schiveley took the unusual step of commenting on
the legal fight between the hospitals. He chided administrators on both sides
for "sophomoric attitudes and behavior" that weakened their financially
successful partnership and made it impossible to continue the enterprise.

Reach reporter Bill Kettler at 541-776-4492, or e-mail bkettler@mailtribune.com

To see more of the Mail Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.mailtribune.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Mail Tribune, Medford, Ore.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100428-ME-Hospitals-end-legal-fight-over-imaging-center-0428

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ME


                          Copyright 2010 Mail Tribune


                              471 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             January 4, 1993 Monday

LEGAL BID TO STOP HOSPITAL SALE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: DUNNE D

LENGTH: 189 words


Legal bid to stop hospital sale A GROUP of Mackay doctors is considering a legal
challenge to stop the Sisters of Mercy from buying the Pioneer Valley Hospital
and closing its in- vitro fertilisation clinic.

The Catholic order is also understood to be bidding for the Townsville Hospital
and would also close its clinic, leaving Brisbane with Queensland's only IVF
clinics.

Shareholders will decide on the sisters' undisclosed offer for the Mackay
hospital at a meeting on January 12.

They will also consider whatever other offers have been made for the complex.

Mackay Regional Development Bureau manager Matthew Magin said if the sale went
through, the church would own both Mackay private hospitals; the other being the
Mater.

Both Townsville and Mackay hospitals host clinics, run by the Queensland
Fertility Council, for four weeks twice a year.

Council senior director John Hennessey said it was doubtful that the Mackay Base
Hospital could take over the Pioneer Valley program.

He said the clinic was likely to be shifted to Rockhampton where some private
hospitals had shown interest in hosting the program.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1993 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              472 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                     November 24, 2015 Tuesday 10:58 AM GMT

NHS shake-up bosses submit defence after Wythenshawe doctors launch legal bid to
save surgery;
Doctors launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together hospital
shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the region.

BYLINE: By Todd Fitzgerald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 443 words


Greater Manchester's clinical commissioners have submitted their defence of
Healthier Together plans after a group of Wythenshawe doctors launched legal
action over the move to take emergency abdominal surgery away from the hospital.

Earlier this month, 'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a company set up for the
purpose - lodged court papers aimed at triggering a judicial review of the
decision, taken by the region's 12 CCGs over the summer.

Doctors launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together hospital
shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the region.

They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal surgery.
Wythenshawe, to the fury of doctors, MPs, and some local councillors, was not
one of those chosen after losing out to nearby Stepping Hill.

A small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's much larger
medical staffing committee, launched legal action against the NHS and Greater
Manchester's 12 clinical commissioning groups.

CCG chiefs have now lodged their defence to the decision.

Healthier Together bosses say NHS England; Stockport NHS Foundation Trust; North
Derbyshire CCG; and High Peak and Derbyshire councils have applied to become
'interested parties' in the case.

Stepping Hill was chosen as the fourth and final specialist site because of
better transport links.

NHS bosses originally said the legal action could taxpayers £500,000. The
involvement of other bodies is likely to see that figure increase significantly,
with each interested party having to consult solicitors.

Chris Brookes, chief medical advisor to Healthier Together, said: "Healthier
Together is about raising standards for all patients when they need hospital
treatment thereby focusing on removing variation in care across Greater
Manchester.

"It is disappointing that the benefits to patients of 'shared single services',
which will mean clinicians working across organisational boundaries to provide
reliable care are being compromised by a small number of doctors at Wythenshawe
hospital, who appear disaffected by a clinical decision made by a constituted
Committees in Common of the Greater Manchester CCGs."

CCG chiefs maintain there will be no changes to Wythenshawe's specialist
services.

But doctors, represented by lawyers Irwin Mitchell, say the move would
'downgrade' the hospital. They say the 'catastrophic' move would be 'unlawful'.

A judge is expected to look at the bid - and the CCGs' defence - in the coming
months before ruling whether or not the review can go ahead.

The Healthier Together shake-up will largely continue as planned while the legal
process rumbles on.

Wythenshawe Hospital

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              473 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Northlines (India)

                              June 11, 2012 Monday

Legal notice to officer probing infant deaths

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: SRINAGAR


SRINAGAR, June 11 -- Former Medical Superintendent of G B Pant Hospital Javid
Chowdhary has served a legal notice on the inquiry officer probing the high
infant mortality rate in the only children's hospital here, accusing him of
destroying important evidence.

Director of Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) Soura Showkat
Ahmad Zargar was served the legal notice by Chowdhary through his counsel on
Sunday.

Accusing Zargar of exceeding his limits, the notice alleged that the inquiry
officer broke open Chowdhary's locker in the hospital without informing him and
took away "important papers" which he had kept for his defence.

"You have exceeded your limits prescribed for an inquiry officer and provided
under law, with ulterior motives, ill-will against the person of my client
(Chowdhary) and you are responsible for whatever has happened and whatever will
happen in future, to the person of my client," the notice read.

Zargar has been appointed as inquiry officer to ascertain the cause of high rate
of deaths in the G B Pant hospital on May 17, on the day Chowdhary was relieved
of his charge as Medical superintendent of the hospital and attached with
Medical Education department.

Chowdhary accused Zargar of destroying important evidence and "manufacturing
some additional documents" to malign his image.

The notice said the infant death were occurring before Chowdhary was given the
charge of the hospital on January 16 at the same rate and still continuing at
the same pace. "The deaths cannot be attributed to any person".

Chowdhary threatened Zargar with a defamation case if the latter failed to stop
"maligning" him and restoring his important evidence on the subject.

A similar legal notice has been served on Dr Muneer Masoodi, who is the current
Medical Superintendent of the G B Pant Hospital for facilitating the breaking
open of Chowdhary's room in the hospital.

Chowdhary has also filed a complaint before the Commissioner Secretary of the
Medical Education Department against Zargar and Masoodi. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from The Northlines.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Northlines
                              All Rights Reserved


                              474 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              May 27, 2014 Tuesday

Planned Parenthood, ACLU in court today challenging Wisconsin anti-abortion law

LENGTH: 391  words


Wisconsin's law seeking to put further restrictions on abortion rights goes on
trial today in a federal courtroom in Chicago.
The plaintiffs in this case are Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin and Affiliated
Medical Services. They are represented by attorneys from Planned Parenthood
Federation of America, the American Civil Liberties Union, the ACLU of
Wisconsin, as well as the Wisconsin firm Cullen, Weston, Pines & Bach.


The law being challenged requires abortion providers to obtain staff privileges
at local hospitals. Such laws have been opposed by medical groups such as the
American Medical Association and the American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists because rather than enhance patient safety they put women at risk.

Louis Melling, deputing legal director of the ACLU, said in a news release,
"This law was designed by politicians, not doctors, with the single-minded goal
of shutting down women's health care centers and ending access to safe, legal
abortion. Requiring a business arrangement that would decrease women's access to
high quality health care providers doesn't improve women's safety. Opponents are
waging a stealth war on abortion, and women and families are paying the price."
Wisconsin has only four health centers where a woman can have an abortion. The
law, which has been blocked while the legal case proceeds, would force one
provider in Milwaukee to close immediately.
Physicians who provide abortion might not be able to obtain admitting privileges
at local hospitals for a variety of reasons that have nothing to do with their
quality or credentials:
· Reasons include the religious affiliation of the hospitals.
· vVarious hospital bylaw requirements that the physicians cannot satisfy, such
as minimum number of hospital admissions per year, which the physicians cannot
satisfy because abortion is so safe.
· Requirements that the physician live within a certain distance of the
hospital.
Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood of America, said in a news
release, "We all want to protect women's health and safety. This law won't do
that - in fact, it will do the opposite, which is why we are in court on behalf
of the patients who turn to Planned Parenthood health centers for safe,
compassionate, respectful care."
© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              475 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Hemel Gazette

                                  May 23, 2008

DHAG pays £26k for failed hospital legal challenge

LENGTH: 204  words


Campaigners will have to pay £26,500 for the failed legal challenge to the
downgrading of Hemel Hempstead Hospital.

Dacorum Hospital Action Group (DHAG) has handed the cash to West Herts Hospitals
NHS Trust to help cover its legal costs for the High Court action last year.

The judicial review was based on the way the decision was taken to shift full
A&E to Watford and planned surgery to St Albans.

The judge ordered DHAG to pay 40 per cent of the trust's legal bill after ruling
the decision to move services out of the town had been made fairly.

The community raised thousands of pounds in a Gazette-backed campaign in support
of DHAG to allow the review to take place.

This means the action group still has £23,000 left in its fighting fund.

DHAG chairman Zena Bullmore said: "Thanks to the generous donations from Dacorum
citizens, and beyond, and to the publicity given by The Gazette, we have £23,000
left to continue our campaign after paying the legal costs."

She said the closures in Hemel Hempstead had resulted in a worse service to
patients.

"We therefore in justice request that Hemel Hempstead Hospital's orthopaedic
operating theatres and wards, and the other lost services, are returned at a
very early date," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              476 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 15, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Bid for county business might be a conflict for senator

BYLINE: DAVID KARP

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



At the same time he is proposing legislation that affects county government,
state Sen. John Grant has asked whether his private law firm can get a piece of
the county's legal business, officials say.    Grant, a lawyer in the firm of
Harris, Barrett, Mann & Dew, asked County Attorney Emmy Acton to consider
sending county legal business his way during the same meeting that he discussed
legislation that affects the county.    Grant's firm never got any county legal
work, and Acton said Grant never explicitly tied the two subjects together.
But the specter of a state senator soliciting legal work while also discussing
legislation has raised questions.   "As a member of the Legislature, he has
power over our board," Commissioner Jan Platt said Thursday. "I think that it
gives an appearance of a conflict."   Grant acknowledges meeting with Acton to
discuss legislation, but he doesn't recall asking Acton for legal business.   "I
don't remember why I was there," Grant said. "I may have brought (the legal
work) up in passing."   Acton's calendar of Oct. 28 says that Grant came to
speak her that morning about "client development."   Wednesday, Grant appeared
before commissioners to discuss two bills he filed that could affect Tampa
General Hospital. One bill would give hospitals lien power to help them collect
insurance settlements from patients. The other bill could have changed the
Hillsborough County Hospital Authority. Grant now says he plans to withdraw the
hospital authority bill.   Grant told commissioners Wednesday that he had met
with Acton to discuss the bills.    "And I told her that I would be glad to
champion in the Legislature whatever the commission wanted to do in regard to
legislation that would affect Tampa General Hospital," Grant said.   Because of
that comment, Commissioner Jan Platt wanted to know why Grant was meeting with
Acton about legislation without first talking to the commission. Acton later
told Platt the meeting was about a request for business.   Acton would not
discuss the meeting in detail, other than to say that Grant did talk about the
hospital authority bill and business for his firm.   Grant also mentioned the
lien bill, which is still pending. "It came up as an aside," Acton said. "It
wasn't a big issue."   Even so, public interest groups criticized Grant for
mixing Senate work with his business interests.   "A legislator's personal
business should be kept separate from their public, official business,
especially when they stand to gain financially," said Mark Ferrulo, director of
the Public Interest Research Group, a Tallahassee-based good government group,
who spoke about Grant's situation.   Commissioner Pat Frank, who served with
Grant in the Senate, said he should have done more to separate his law firm from
his Senate duties.   "John is very aggressive about trying to get business,"
Frank said. "I was very careful when I was in the Legislature. . . . I never
wanted to be in a situation of conflict."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; COLOR PHOTO, (2); John Grant (ran CITY & STATE,
METRO & STATE); John Grant (ran TAMPA & STATE); County Attorney Emmy Acton (ran
TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              477 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 8, 2004

Women denied legal aid in 'Butcher' rape case

BYLINE: TAHIRA YAQOOB

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 393 words


DOZENS of women who claim they were raped by a disgraced gynaecologist have been
forced to drop their case after being refused legal aid.

Forty-two women complained Rodney Ledward was responsible for more than 200 sex
attacks on them while practising as a consultant.

But just five days before launching a compensation claim against Ledward's NHS
employers, they have been forced to withdraw.

The Legal Services Commission, which awards legal aid, has refused to meet the
Pounds 750,000 cost of their six-week High Court case on the grounds that they
fail to meet the necessary financial criteria. Ledward, who died in October
2000, was struck off the medical register in 1998 for a series of blunders at
two hospitals in Kent from 1989 to 1996.

Dubbed ' The Butcher' for his botched operations, he boasted he was 'the fastest
gynaecologist in the South-East'.

After a disciplinary hearing before the General Medical Council, dozens of women
came forward.

There were 32 claims of rape and ten of indecent assault.

One woman claimed she was raped twice in two days when she saw the consultant in
June 1988 at Victoria Hospital in Deal, near Dover.

Another alleged victim said he threatened to hurt her if she didn't relax while
he raped her at Buckland Hospital in December 1983.

The women were planning to sue Kent and Medway Health Authority and East Kent
Hospitals NHS Trust.

However, the refusal to grant legal aid has shocked them as the same body
pledged to fund a civil action by career criminal Brendan Fearon against Norfolk
farmer Tony Martin.

Martin's case sparked an outcry about the right to defend his own home after he
was jailed for life for wounding Fearon and shooting dead 16-year-old
accomplice, Fred Barras.

Ledward's alleged victims now have to decide whether to pay for the case
privately or appeal the decision before an independent committee.

Last night a spokesman for their legal firm, Jane Loveday Solicitors, said: 'All
of the women involved remain determined to fight for justice but it was just not
possible to do so with the lack of legal aid funding.' A spokesman for the Legal
Services Commission said: 'We sympathise with their situation.

Sexual abuse is an appalling crime.' Ledward died of pancreatic cancer at the
age of 62 while under police investigation.

END

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              478 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 10, 2000

MUM HAD TO BURY CHILD THREE TIMES

LENGTH: 224 words


A mother told yesterday how she had to bury her daughter three times as parents
began legal action against a fifth hospital over missing body organs.

Noreen Hodgkinson, whose daughter Noleen aged 16 months died nine years ago
today after a failed heart operation, said she felt "betrayed".

Yesterday 30 families started legal action against Birmingham Children's
Hospital for unlawfully removing and retaining organs without proper consent.

The hospital has already admitted taking and storing up to 1,500 children's
hearts without full consent and knowledge of parents. But families have learned
other organs were also taken.

Similar situations have been exposed at the Bristol Royal Infirmary, Alder Hey,
Liverpool, the Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow and at the Royal Sick
Children's Hospital, Edinburgh. Mrs Hodgkinson, from Stafford, said: "I have had
to bury my daughter's body three times after learning more body parts were taken
than was originally admitted."

Val Clifford, from Aldridge, West Midlands, only discovered 30 years later that
the hospital had taken organs from her son Raymond, who died when he was a few
days old. "No one deserves for this to happen to them," she said."Birmingham
Children's Hospital believes legal action ahead of the Chief Medical Officer's
report to be premature.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              479 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             July 21, 1988 Thursday

Hospitals' battle for services 'may become test case'

BYLINE: JIM MCCARTER

LENGTH: 345 words


The right of three SA country hospitals to continue providing acute medical
services could become a test case on a State and national basis, a farmers'
representative on the Hospital Action Committee, Ms Jeannie Ferris, said
yesterday.

Ms Ferris, an executive officer of the United Farmers and Stockowners of SA,
told the annual UFS State conference that the committee had decided on Monday it
was prepared to fight the case for the Tailem Bend, Laura and Blyth hospitals
through the courts.

"We have a very strong case, according to the Queen's Counsel we have retained,"
she said.

The conference was told almost $16,000 had already been contributed to a
fighting fund established to help finance the committee's legal costs.

All three hospitals are continuing to operate as acute treatment centres in
defiance of the SA Health Commission's ruling that they should become nursing
homes.

Ms Ferris said their decision to do so was based on advice from a QC that they
could continue to operate in law as country hospitals.

"In other words they are operating with legal protection for patients," she
said.

The three were playing a tactical waiting game despite plans by the SA Health
Commission to close their acute care beds.

"Nothing will happen until the administrators of the three hospitals ask for
cheques to be paid for services provided in the past three weeks," she said.

That was likely to be in the next week or so.

Most of that money would normally go to general practitioners in the towns
concerned, who were highly supportive of the hospital boards in each case.

Ms Ferris said it was unfortunate some larger country hospitals had been
prevailed upon by the Health Commission to not support the case for Laura, Blyth
and Tailem Bend as strongly as they might otherwise have.

"They might stand to gain what the smaller hospitals stand to lose," she said.

Ms Ferris said the action committee would meet again tomorrow with its legal
counsel to decide further plans relating to the legal position of the three
hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              480 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               November 12, 2007

Physician-owned hospital can pursue antitrust lawsuit

BYLINE: By Amy Lynn Sorrel, AMNews staff. Nov. 12, 2007

SECTION: GOVERNMENT; Pg. 5 Vol. 50 No. 42

LENGTH: 1135 words



HIGHLIGHT: The decision sends community hospitals a message that actions to
restrict competition are subject to the law, the specialty facility's attorney
says.


A specialty hospital received a rare legal victory in a case that highlights the
tensions between physician-owned specialty hospitals and their traditional-
hospital competitors.

The U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas allowed Heartland Spine &
Specialty Hospital, in Overland Park, Kan., to pursue its antitrust lawsuit
accusing two major insurers and three Kansas City-area acute-care hospitals of
conspiring to keep the doctor-owned facility out of the health plan networks and
out of business.

District Judge Monti L. Belot denied requests by HCA Midwest Division Inc., St.
Luke's Health System, Shawnee Mission Medical Center, Aetna and Coventry Health
Care to toss out the case. The Heartland doctors showed enough evidence to
pursue their claims, he said.

Legal experts say the ruling is significant because these types of cases are
difficult to prove. They believe Heartland's antitrust suit is the first of its
kind to make it to trial, which is scheduled for April 1.

The lawsuit is one of several similar legal battles going on across the country,
sparked by doctors who charge that dominant hospitals are trying to protect
themselves from competition at the expense of patient care. General hospitals,
on the other hand, argue that the specialty facilities provide insufficient
services while "cherry-picking" more profitable treatment lines and leaving the
community facilities with the cost of emergency and uninsured care.

The decision "sends a message to traditional hospital systems that there are
legitimate ways to address policy concerns and unlawful ways to address
competitive concerns, and those are going to be subject to antitrust laws," said
Patrick J. Stueve, Heartland's attorney.

HCA Midwest did not return calls for comment. Shawnee Mission and St. Luke's
declined to respond to the ruling, citing the pending litigation. Aetna and
Coventry also declined to comment on the court case.

But Aetna spokeswoman Cynthia B. Michener said the insurer "makes hospital
contracting decisions based on network need in any given area." To assess that,
Aetna uses uniform criteria that include the adequacy of services already
provided by in-network hospitals; patient needs; and the quality, type and cost
of medical services offered by a facility.

Heartland also sued North Kansas City Hospital, BlueCross BlueShield of Kansas
City, UnitedHealthcare, Humana and Cigna, all of which settled earlier this year
under confidential agreements. Blues spokeswoman Susan Johnson denied the
allegations and said the company settled "to reach a mutually satisfactory
resolution of the case." The others declined to comment.

The court found insufficient evidence that another defendant, Carondelet Health,
participated in the alleged hospital boycott.

American Medical Association President Ron Davis, MD, said specialty hospitals
can provide superior services at lower costs that come with certain
efficiencies. The AMA is not involved in the lawsuit.

"Full-service hospitals should respond to the new competition through innovation
and fair business practices, rather than conspiring to restrict patient choice,
impede the continuity of care and undermine quality care," Dr. Davis said.

Meanwhile, Heartland doctors say they opened their facility in 2003 to focus on
delivering high-quality care.

"Physicians have direct input in all aspects of the operation, and what they've
attempted to do is take feedback from patients over the years and build a
hospital that meets their needs," Stueve said. Heartland also plans to expand
its services, to include emergency services, for example, he said.

The hospital defendants combined, including the settling parties, control 74% of
the local market, court records show. All of the health plan defendants
originally named in the case account for approximately 90% of managed care
enrollees in the Kansas City area. Aetna and Coventry are the third- and
fourth-largest managed care plans in the area, with a 19% combined share of
enrollees.

The doctors allege that the hospitals colluded to negotiate with the insurers to
exclude independent physician-owned or ambulatory surgery facilities like
Heartland as a condition of their contracts. The doctors claim that the plans
agreed to the non-competition clauses in exchange for lower reimbursement rates
for the hospitals, legal records show.

In court papers, the hospitals denied the conspiracy charges and argued that
limiting competition is in the best interest of patient care.

But that "does not explain why [the hospitals] were willing to work with their
competitors to allow [them] into the [insurance] networks, while keeping the
physician-owned facilities out," the court said.

"If it is in a hospital's best interest to keep new facilities out of network,
then it would appear to be in that hospital's best interest to keep out both
majority-owned and physician-owned facilities," Judge Belot wrote.

Thomas L. Greaney, co-director of the Center for Health Law Studies at the Saint
Louis University School of Law in Missouri, said the decision could help shed
light on the broader legal and policy concerns associated with doctor-owned
specialty centers. The school, in conjunction with the American Bar Assn.,
hosted an antitrust conference addressing the topic on Oct. 25.

The issue has drawn antitrust scrutiny from the Dept. of Justice, particularly
in areas where community hospitals may use state certificate-of-need laws to
block competition from the facilities, Greaney said. These laws typically
require new hospitals to show patient need in the area before they can launch.
Cases like Heartland's are popping up in states where those laws are lax or
nonexistent, such as Kansas, Texas and Colorado, and where the specialty
hospitals tend to flourish, Greaney added.

"Antitrust law is pretty protective about allowing [hospitals] to ... voice
their views that there is potentially 'cream-skimming' that works to their
ultimate disadvantage," said Greaney, a former Justice Dept. antitrust lawyer.
That's what makes these cases difficult to bring. "But when you try to exercise
your market powers with others, vis-à-vis another hospital or pressuring payers,
then [hospitals] may run into trouble," he added.

The physician-owned facilities also have prompted federal attention. Lawmakers'
worries about the quality of care at these hospitals and the potential for
physician self-referral resulted in an 18-month moratorium on referrals to new
doctor-owned specialty hospitals. It expired in 2005.

Case at a glance

Impact: Legal experts say the ruling -- possibly the first of its kind -- is
significant because such antitrust claims are difficult to prove.

Heartland Surgical Specialty Hospital LLC v. Midwest Division Inc. dba HCA
Midwest Division Inc. et al., U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              481 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                               N-j Final Edition

Hospital attorney quits with high bills

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 817  words

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH


NEW SMYRNA BEACH -- The lawyer who led the Southeast Volusia Hospital District
board into a Sunshine Law violation that has cost taxpayers hundreds of
thousands in legal bills has quit working for the district.

At least for now.

Jim Heekin, the hospital board's attorney for nearly 20 years, does not want to
represent the district as it separates the Bert Fish Medical Center from its
former merger partner, nonprofit Adventist Health System, attorney Darryl
Bloodworth told the board Wednesday night. "I checked with the Lowndes firm,"
Bloodworth said about the Orlando law firm where Heekin works. "They don't
believe they can be of service in the unwinding."

Bob Weiss, the district board's vice chairman, said Thursday, "I would think
effectively from now on, at least through the unwinding, he (Heekin) is not our
attorney."

Heekin and his firm have earned more than $700,000 in legal fees from the
merger. He did not attend Wednesday's board meeting and could not be reached for
comment.

During a four-day trial last month, Heekin said he erroneously told hospital
board members the public could be kept out of meetings where the board discussed
leasing and selling the New Smyrna Beach public hospital.

The resulting lease/sale agreement that was finalized June 30 prompted a lawsuit
from the Bert Fish Foundation, a philanthropic organization that gave the
hospital to the district in 1966. Last month, Judge Richard Graham tossed out
the merger, saying the Sunshine violations committed by the board were not cured
by a second round of public meetings to select Adventist Health.

The ruling said Heekin was among a group of people that had "huge personal
financial stakes" in the outcome as they set up the public do-over.

In throwing out the eight-month merger, Graham asked Adventist Health, the
district and the foundation to present a plan to restore the hospital to its
government-run status.

Heekin has told the board that it could file a malpractice claim against his
insurance company for the bad advice. On Wednesday night, the board briefly
discussed filing such a claim against Heekin's firm to recover some of the legal
expenses that resulted from his advice. But no vote was taken.

Property tax money from Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of
Port Orange has so far paid out about $820,000 in merger-related legal bills to
Heekin and another Orlando law firm -- only for the public hospital to land back
at square1 .

In addition, Judge Graham likely will order the district to pay some of the
foundation attorneys' fees.

More urgent than the malpractice claim, however, is unwinding Bert Fish Medical
Center from Adventist Health, said Bloodworth, who represented the board in the
lawsuit. He introduced the board to Kelly Sullivan, a health care attorney with
his firm, Dean Mead, who is available to represent them. The board, with only
four of the seven members present Wednesday, took no action, however.

The board was also introduced to two candidates who could manage the unwinding
of Bert Fish from Adventist Health: James Hopwood of Focus Management Group,
based in Tampa, and Paul Metts, an independent health care consultant who has
been an executive at Shands HealthCare at the University of Florida.

Jon Kaney, a lawyer with Cobb Cole who represented the foundation in the suit,
said he was concerned that Metts was brought to Wednesday's meeting after a
phone call from Heekin.

This should be an arm's-length deal," he said. "Because someone knows someone
doesn't mean they should be the one you choose."

Further discussion revealed that Metts also once worked as the boss of Bob
Williams, Bert Fish's former CEO and current interim director of the district.
Judge Graham's order also singled out Williams as having a huge financial
interest in Bert Fish's merger because Williams received a severance package
with the deal.

Bill McGee, a board member from Oak Hill, said Heekin called Metts at his
request. He took umbrage at the notion that previous involvement with district
officials, past and present, should disqualify anyone from serving.

We've had a great experience with Mr. Metts," McGee said. "We did make
independent decisions."

Board member Tom DeSimone, however, suggested that a request for a proposal be
put out for consultants to apply for the job.

To make it as open and transparent as possible," he said.

But Dr. Tom Ownby, chairman of the board, said the board had to move quickly:
"Where are we going to put that, in a health care magazine?"

Sullivan, the district's possible new attorney, said she took it upon herself to
post a request on a health care network, looking for a consultant to help with
the unwinding, and so far garnered three other candidates.

They can be here at your next meeting on Tuesday," she said.

The board agreed to talk to those candidates at its Tuesday meeting, scheduled
for 5 p.m. at the New Smyrna Beach Public Library.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


                              482 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                            April 25, 2013 Thursday

Highgate motorcyclist paralysed after crash wins more than £4million in damages

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 425 words


A Highgate motorcyclist has won £4.6million in damages after being left
paralysed following a crash in St Albans.

A Highgate motorcyclist has won £4.6million in damages after being left
paralysed following a crash.



Kevin Daniel, 32, was hit by a truck on the North Orbital Road in St Albans
after colliding with a car in 2006.

On Monday, a judge at the High Court approved a settlement after lawyers for Mr
Daniel launched legal action against the driver's insurers and West
Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust, which runs Watford General Hospital.

Mr Daniel said his treatment at Watford General Hospital was negligent and
contributed to his life-changing injuries. He has paralysis of his lower body.

He will receive £4.58million in damages as well as £700,000 towards his legal
costs from the trust and the insurers.

However, there was no admission of liability by the trust.

Mr Daniel lost control of the Yamaha motorbike when it collided with a Peugeot
207. The bike then went into the back of a large goods vehicle.

Mr Daniel's lawyers said he did not have a "complete spinal cord injury" when he
arrived at the hospital. Owing to negligent treatment, his condition
deteriorated, they said. He has now returned to his native South Africa.

Kevin Daniel, 32, was hit by a truck on the North Orbital Road near the M1 after
colliding with a car on October 5, 2006.

On Monday, a judge at London's High Court approved a settlement after lawyers
acting on Mr Daniel's behalf launched legal action against the driver's insurers
and West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust, which runs Watford General Hospital.


Mr Daniel, originally from South Africa, claimed his treatment at Watford
General Hospital was negligent and contributed to his life-changing injuries,
which resulted in paralysis of his lower body.

The 32-year-old was awarded £4.58million in damages, as well as £700,000 towards
his legal costs, from the trust and the insurers.

However, there was no admission of liability by the trust.

Mr Daniel, who was 26 at the time of the accident, lost control of the Yamaha R6
motorbike as he was driving on the A405 when it collided with a blue Peugeot
207.

The bike ploughed on into the back of a large goods vehicle.

Mr Daniel's lawyers said he did not have a "complete spinal cord injury" when he
arrived at the hospital.

But owing to negligent treatment his condition deteriorated by the time of a
later CT scan.

Mr Daniel, who was living in Highgate at the time of the crash but has since
returned to South Africa, requires constant care as a result of his injuries.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              483 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                            January 07, 2013 Monday
                                   E1 Edition

Lack of supplies exposes hospital to legal action, doctor warns

BYLINE:  Lungelo Mkamba

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 309 words


DOCTORS at Addington Hospital are being forced to practise substandard medicine,
exposing themselves and the hospital to possible legal action from patients and
their aggrieved families. This is according to a desperate letter written by the
head of the hospital's surgery unit, Dr Masee Naidoo, to its acting chief
executive, Thabisile Sakyi.

In the letter Naidoo asks why, six months after the KwaZulu-Natal Department of
Health appointed a task team to look into Addington's problems, "we are still
scavenging for needles, swabs and syringes".

He wrote that doctors were working without "the necessary essential medical
items" and delays in getting patients to theatre were resulting in "avoidable
complications" and "deterioration of patients' health conditions".

Among the issues he raised were:

l Operating theatres were too hot, making sepsis a problem.

l Limited theatre availability led to delays.

l Doctors treating patients without the necessary essential medical items.

l Doctors exposing themselves to potential legal action.

In the letter he pleaded with the hospital's management to ensure that all its
medical personnel were indemnified from any legal action that might arise.

He said the family of one of his patients were advised to "institute action
against me as I was mismanaging their relative. I wish to point out that this
will not be tolerated".

In October the struggling hospital's new chief executive, Dr Kobus Kotze, quit
after just three days. Last month the Health Department confirmed some doctors
and pharmacy staff had been suspended, on full salary, pending an investigation.

Naidoo said he had written to the provincial Health Department's head, Sibongile
Zungu, expressing "displeasure" at her laying "the blame at our feet when we
simply do not have the necessary tools to work with". The department said it
would only comment today.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              484 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                October 27, 1998

Player's leg injury misery

SECTION: Health: HOSPITALS, Pg.1

LENGTH: 194 words


FORMER Tonna rugby player Paul Bamsey is taking legal action against Neath
General Hospital over an alleged blunder which ruined his sporting dreams.

The 26-year-old from Tonna, Neath, says a drill bit was left behind after
surgery on his broken leg.

He snapped his left leg during a match four years ago.

Doctors drilled a metal plate into his leg during an operation but the drill bit
snapped during the operation at Neath General Hospital.

An X-ray showed up the inch-long broken bit and Paul now plans legal action
against the hospital.

Carpenter Paul said: "I've been through four years of aggro from my leg. It just
wouldn't heal. I've had to give up rugby, and had half-a-dozen other operations.

Paul, of Heol Dyddwr, Tonna, is launching legal action against Neath General
Hospital. He was playing for Tonna and had hopes of a promising career.But
Paul's dreams were dashed - as he watched his former schoolboy team-mates all
play for Wales.

Independent consultant Donald Mc Neill said: "Drill bits do not normally break."

Malcolm Otter, associate director at the hospital, said: "I can confirm Mr
Bamsey has made a legal claim against us."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DRILL BIT: Paul Bamsey.

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post


                              485 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      November 23, 2015 Monday 9:39 PM GMT

NHS shake-up bosses submit defence after Wythenshawe doctors launch legal bid to
save emergency surgery;
Doctors launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together hospital
shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the region.

BYLINE: By Todd Fitzgerald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 441 words


Greater Manchester's clinical commissioners have submitted their defence of
Healthier Together plans after a group of Wythenshawe doctors launched legal
action over the move to take emergency surgery away from the hospital.

Earlier this month, 'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a company set up for the
purpose - lodged court papers aimed at triggering a judicial review of the
decision, taken by the region's 12 CCGs over the summer.

Doctors launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together hospital
shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the region.

They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal surgery.
Wythenshawe, to the fury of doctors, MPs, and some local councillors, was not
one of those chosen after losing out to nearby Stepping Hill.

A small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's much larger
medical staffing committee, launched legal action against the NHS and Greater
Manchester's 12 clinical commissioning groups.

CCG chiefs have now lodged their defence to the decision.

Healthier Together bosses say NHS England; Stockport NHS Foundation Trust; North
Derbyshire CCG; and High Peak and Derbyshire councils have applied to become
'interested parties' in the case.

Stepping Hill was chosen as the fourth and final specialist site because of
better transport links.

NHS bosses originally said the legal action could taxpayers £500,000. The
involvement of other bodies is likely to see that figure increase significantly,
with each interested party having to consult solicitors.

Chris Brookes, chief medical advisor to Healthier Together, said: "Healthier
Together is about raising standards for all patients when they need hospital
treatment thereby focusing on removing variation in care across Greater
Manchester.

"It is disappointing that the benefits to patients of 'shared single services',
which will mean clinicians working across organisational boundaries to provide
reliable care are being compromised by a small number of doctors at Wythenshawe
hospital, who appear disaffected by a clinical decision made by a constituted
Committees in Common of the Greater Manchester CCGs."

CCG chiefs maintain there will be no changes to Wythenshawe's specialist
services.

But doctors, represented by lawyers Irwin Mitchell, say the move would
'downgrade' the hospital. They say the 'catastrophic' move would be 'unlawful'.

A judge is expected to look at the bid - and the CCGs' defence - in the coming
months before ruling whether or not the review can go ahead.

The Healthier Together shake-up will largely continue as planned while the legal
process rumbles on.

Wythenshawe Hospital

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              486 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            October 17, 2008 Friday

Borderline fracture

BYLINE: The Cepa deal was supposed to allow local doctors to operate on the
mainland, but bureaucratic, financial and legal obstacles remain, writes Ella
Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Behind the News; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1521 words


If opening up the mainland health care market under the Closer Economic
Partnership Arrangement (Cepa) is a present from Beijing to Hong Kong medical
service providers, it is a gift voucher that has yet to be redeemed. Since the
first generation of Cepa, introduced in 2005, allowed Hong Kong doctors and
dentists to practise up north, those who have tried  to exploit the new
opportunity have struggled with red tape, an information blackout and investor
disinterest.

Some have shelved plans because of a sudden change in policies; some failed to
get professional indemnity protection; while others fear what could happen in
the event of a medical legal case.

That is why there were no big cheers from local practitioners when the latest
Cepa deal with Guangdong - allowing Hong Kong doctors and dentists to practise
solo in the province without having to sit a mainland licensing examination -
was announced in July.

Instead, a wait-and-see attitude prevails, until details of how the system will
work emerge.

The latest economic pact,  effective from January, will  permit Hong Kong
doctors and dentists to set up wholly owned outpatient clinics in Guangdong with
no minimum investment requirement. The practitioners are also exempted from
sitting the mainland examination and obtaining medical practitioner
qualification certificates through accreditation.

The previous Cepa arrangement required a minimum joint-venture investment of 10
million yuan ($11HK.3 million). The response was poor.

Medical Association president Tse Hung-hing  said most Hong Kong doctors had
snubbed Cepa because of uncertainties and risks. The key concern was the legal
liabilities.

While doctors in Hong Kong are covered by the Medical Protection Society (MPS)
for professional indemnity, they cannot get the same protection  on the
mainland.

Dr Tse said the MPS provided only selective protection to Hong Kong doctors who
practised on the mainland and there was no guarantee they could be insured at
all.

Some doctors have complained to the  Medical Association  about the lack of
insurance coverage.

"We don't know about the medical legal system on the mainland; there are no
statistics available on compensation given out on medical legal cases, so it is
difficult for an insurance company to work out a plan in the first place," Dr
Tse said.

"Medical practice is always very high risk.

"Without a clear policy on professional indemnity, Hong Kong doctors will not
feel safe practising on the mainland."

Private Hospitals' Association president Alan Lau Kwok-lam  said local private
hospitals had no plans to set up satellite hospitals on the mainland because of
the potential business risk.

"We are unclear what responsibilities doctors and hospitals have to bear if some
medical incidents happen," Dr Lau said. "We simply don't understand the mainland
legal system there. The private hospital business takes a long time to get a
return, at least 10 or 15 years."

For the Union Hospital in Sha Tin, one of the city's 12 private hospitals, red
tape and a lack of mainland business know-how  have been hurdles to its plan to
open a hair implant centre in Guangzhou.

The hospital's medical director, Anthony Lee Kai-yiu,  said the centre was
expected to act as a window to  Hong Kong for potential mainland medical
tourists.

After more than a year, the plan is still on the drawing board. Last year, the
hospital's parent company, property developer Henderson Group, had a vacant
premises in Guangzhou for the centre but the hospital could not find a local
partner.

At the time, Cepa only allowed a Hong Kong operator to have a joint venture with
a mainland partner. The site later became a shopping centre.

Earlier this year, the hospital was in talks about the project with a Guangzhou
teaching hospital but  the plan was shelved, this time because of a reshuffle of
the hospital's leadership.

Now on its third attempt, the Union Hospital is working with a private health
care operator and has appointed a consultant to help it obtain a business
licence.

The consultant report said, however, that it would take the hospital at least 14
to 15 months to get a business licence for such a joint venture.

"We need to rent a premises first and leave it vacant for more than a year to
get the licence - it is part of the undesirable cost of running a business on
the mainland," Dr Lee said.

The hospital will also  look into proceeding with a wholly owned model instead
of a joint venture after the new Guangdong Cepa deal takes effect.

Dr Lee complained of an information blackout when it came to turning  the Cepa
agreement from words into reality.

"There have never been any briefings to Hong Kong service providers on how it
can be done.  It would be good if there was a designated office on the mainland
to help Hong Kong businesses to explore Cepa," he said.

Dr Lee said the biggest obstacle to opening a hospital on the mainland was a
lack of expertise.

"People are the key. Health care services are very labour intensive," he said.

"A hospital must have a good team of doctors, nurses, allied health and
laboratories staff. I don't think we can get such a team on the mainland to
provide the Hong Kong-style of care.

"Our name will be at stake if we open a new hospital on the mainland. If we
cannot provide good-quality care, our reputation in Hong Kong will be damaged as
well."

It has been a similar story for private orthopaedist Ko Wing-man  and his
teammates.

He and 13 others were the first batch of local practitioners to practise on the
mainland under Cepa. Since September 2005, they have practised  part-time at the
Clifford Hospital  in Panyu , Guangdong. Dr Ko and two other orthopaedists - St
Paul's Hospital medical superintendent David Fang Jin-sheng  and former Public
Doctors Association president Poon Tak-lun  -  also set up a shell company a few
years ago to explore opportunities to run a hospital on the mainland.

Dr Ko, also a former director of the Hospital Authority, which runs more than 40
public hospitals, is keen to provide management and clinical services to
mainland hospitals.

His idea is to get investors to build either a medium-sized hospital with 300 to
500 beds or to turn a mainland hospital into a Hong Kong-mainland joint venture.
A dozen Hong Kong doctors have expressed interest.

At one stage, Dr Ko's team had a potential investor for  a new hospital in
Beijing, but the investor changed his mind and switched to a hotel project.

"We understand that very few people are keen on health care services because the
risk is too high and the return is slow compared to a property or hotel
project," Dr Ko said.

The team's second plan, to buy a Shanghai hospital, was also aborted because of
a change in government leadership of that city.

Dr Ko said the latest Cepa arrangement with Guangdong was attractive to Hong
Kong doctors who wanted to promote family medicine.

"Family medicine is not popular on the mainland where patients all go to
hospitals for all kind of treatments, including minor ones," he said.

"It is a good chance for Hong Kong doctors to open clinics there to provide
primary services."

Another Hong Kong private doctor, who requested anonymity, agreed that Cepa
could improve the quality of medical care on the mainland by skills transfers in
management and clinical practices.

"If you go to mainland shopping malls, hotels, offices or restaurants, they are
basically the same as those you see in Hong Kong. But, once you walk into a
mainland hospital, you can immediately feel the big difference," he said.

"Patients there pay a few yuan registration fee and then have to pay for
expensive medicine. When we talk about Hong Kong and mainland integration,
health care institutions are among the last to go."

Life seems to be easier for Hong Kong dentists who practise on the mainland
because dental clinics are relatively easy, and cheaper, to start up.

Raymond Lee Kin-man,  a local dentist who has been practising in Beijing, said
the latest Cepa arrangement  was attractive.

A specialist in family dentistry who owns a group practice of more than 10
clinics in Hong Kong, he sat his licensing exam in Beijing in 2005 and was able
to practise in the capital.

"Some corporate clients have asked us if we also have branches on the mainland
to treat their staff working there, so we can see the potential market there for
Hong Kong dentists," he said.

He said Cepa was better for group practices than solo practitioners.

"To a well established dentist in Central, for example, business is good and
there is not much incentive for him to uproot both his business and family in
Hong Kong and move to the north," he said. "But, for a group, we can provide
management services and skills transfer to local dentists."

He said that in order to make a dental practice "financially sustainable" on the
mainland, it had to perform high-skill services such as teeth implants and
cosmetic services like whitening.

"Local mainland patients have been enjoying cheap services for minor procedures
from local clinics, they may not be willing to pay much more for a Hong
Kong-style service," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Credit: David Wong; Anthony Lee says Union Hospital has been trying for
over a year to set up a hair implant clinic in Guangzhou but its efforts have
been frustrated by bureaucratic red tape and a lack of mainland business
know-how.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              487 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            March 23, 2017 Thursday
                                  Pune Mirror

LMO cracks down on hospitals for flouting MRP rules

SECTION: CIVIC

LENGTH: 491 words


By Vicky Pathare

Special drive found that equipment sold by hospitals did not have printed price
and manufacturing details

For all those who bemoan the massive costs incurred for specialised medical
care, here's some welcome news.

The Legal Metrology Organisation (LMO), a state government body that aims to
protect consumer rights, recently initiated a crackdown against 15 leading
hospitals in the city for overcharging on MRP and violating packaging rules of
surgical equipment, surgical goods and other products.

The special drive was conducted from February 18 to March 20 on the orders of
additional directorgeneral and controller of legal metrology, Amitabh Gupta.

Among the hospitals that faced action are Cloud Nine, Hardikar Hospital, Oyster
and Pearl Hospital (all in Shivajinagar), Sahyadri Speciality Hospital in
Yerwada and Galaxy Care Hospital on Karve Road.

The LMO has also booked manufacturers and distributers for violating norms.

During the drive, the equipment and commodities at the hospitals were found to
have MRP prices either missing or smudged. Several other mandatory details --
legal declaration by the manufacturer, consumer number, import or manufacturing
date, etc., were also absent.

"Surgical goods, orthopaedic equipment and dietary supplements were found in
violation of the rules of the Legal Metrological Act 2009 and Packaged
Commodities Rule 2011. Commodities sold through the hospital -- survival
collars, surgical sutures, disposable syringes, liquid immunity fire, etc., --
were found violating the norms, too," said D LKove, deputy controller, LMO, Pune
region.

"Officials also found a huge difference in the MRP that was printed on the
package, that which was charged by the supplier and the final price at which it
was being sold to the patients," he added.

D G Mahajan, assistant controller, LMO, Pune district, confirmed that multiple
violations were found when LMO officers visited the hospitals. "The products are
sold by the hospitals through drug stores owned by the management. The
declarations on the products are mandatory," he said.

On their part, the hospitals, too, admitted that discrepancies were found in
both price and packaging.

Dr Sharad Hardikar, founder of Hardikar Hospital, said, "Such cases occur with
orthopaedic equipment from local manufacturers. There is no printed MRP or
manufacturing date. But, if the product is from a branded manufacturer, all the
norms are followed. "We have spoken to the respective department to look into
the issue and stop purchasing equipment and other commodities which are not as
per packaging rules."

Dr Vijay Tomar, who heads Cloud Nine hospital's Pune unit, said, "The products
which were not as per the packaging rules were instructed to be removed with
immediate effect. We have also informed other branches of Cloud Nine about the
rules and guidelines that should be followed before selling or purchasing a
commodity."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              488 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                           September 12, 2014 Friday

For women patients: 90 female MLOs to join government hospitals

LENGTH: 320  words


Health authorities informed the Sindh High Court on Friday that appointment of
90 female medico-legal officers (MLO) in public sector hospitals has been
recommended to conduct medico-legal procedures on female patients.

The deputy health secretary stated this before a division bench, headed by
Justice Shafi Siddiqui, which was hearing a petition against alleged
discrepancies and malpractice by male medico-legal officers at public hospitals.

The secretary said the Sindh Public Service Commission has recommended 90 female
candidates to the chief minister for appointment as medico-legal officers at
government health facilities. After successful candidates accept their offer
letters, their training will begin at medical university hospitals so that they
can discharge their duties at the hospitals," the deputy secretary added.

Unhappy with progress

The bench remarked that earlier orders passed on December 18, 2012, and January
30, 2013, regarding discrepancies and malpractice are very clear. However, they
observed, it appears that the grievances referred to in the petition and the
said orders have yet to be redressed and have been taken lightly. Therefore, the
judges issued a notice to the health secretary to intervene and hold meetings
with all the stakeholders to resolve the issue as soon as possible.

The health secretary was directed to submit a compliance report within four
weeks and cautioned that an order would be passed against the relevant officers
in case of non-compliance.

The petitioner, a non-governmental organisation called Madadgar, had alleged
male MLOs of violating mandatory procedures on victims and subjecting women and
children to sexual abuse at public health facilities. The court was pleaded to
direct the authorities to bring an end to such violations and also establish
forensic science laboratories in each provincial district.

Published in The Express Tribune, September 13th, 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              489 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 25, 2003, Sunday

MENTAL HEALTH CAMPAIGN: EUROPEAN COURT TO RULE ON DETENTION

BYLINE: SOPHIE GOODCHILD AND STUART ALLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 480 words


The Government is facing a legal challenge over a loophole that allows thousands
of people with learning disabilities or mental health problems to be detained in
hospitals without the right of appeal.

This week, the European Court of Human Rights will hear a landmark case brought
by the carers of an autistic man who has spent most of his life in care.

The man, known only as Leonard for legal reasons, was kept for more than four
months in Bournewood psychiatric hospital in Surrey against the wishes of his
legal guardians, known as Mr and Mrs E.

They are challenging current legislation that allows hospitals to hold patients
who, because of their condition, cannot communicate if they want to leave
hospital.

The Department of Health estimates that there are as many as 50,000 people in
Britain who do not have the capacity to express their views and therefore could
be detained under current laws.

Mental health charities say the legislation violates the human rights of
patients. Simon Foster, the principal solicitor for Mind, said that the
Government needed to act as soon as possible to ensure the rights of the
mentally ill and learning disabled are upheld. "This case illustrates that
vulnerable people need a much higher level of protection," Mr Foster said.
"Mentally ill people need consistency and this practice is anti- therapeutic."

The Independent on Sunday is campaigning for better rights for the mentally ill,
especially those who are patients in special hospitals. The paper has already
highlighted the plight of those who languish in special hospitals when they
should be accommodated in medium-secure units.

In 1997, Leonard, who is now 54, was sent to Bournewood psychiatric hospital
after he became upset by a woman screaming on the bus on the way to his day
centre. He was detained on the orders of a consultant psychiatrist for four and
a half months.

Mr and Mrs E eventually won an independent assessment that allowed him home.
They found that his clothes were soiled, he had lost two stone in weight and he
had blood pouring from a wound in his head where he had hurt himself.

They won a High Court ruling which declared it unlawful for hospitals to hold
adults, without legal procedures, simply because they could not say they wanted
to go home. This ruling was overturned in 2001 by the House of Lords.

Last year, the NHS Ombudsman condemned Bournewood for forcibly detaining Leonard
and said that he should never have been held in the first place.

The Home Office has included provisions in the draft Mental Health Bill that
will allow patients such as Leonard to have legal protection from being
detained.

Bournewood hospital did not provide a comment on Leonard's legal challenge.
However, they have publicly accepted the findings of the Ombudsman's report and
have apologised to Mr and Mrs E.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd


                              490 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 Hobart Mercury

                            March 10, 1988 Thursday

LENGTH: 298 words


Sterility loophole fertile ground for suing MELBOURNE. - Australian hospitals
are risking big law suits from patients whose sterilisation operations fail,
according to a legal expert.

The hospitals have been warned they are leaving themselves open to costly
litigation because of a legal loophole in the badly worded consent forms they
ask their patients to sign.

Mr John Snowdon, from the Melbourne legal firm Phillips Fox, said that in failed
sterilisation cases, "Murphy's law generally operates".

"Based on current trends, a successful claim after an unwanted pregnancy could
cost a doctor or hospital a verdict in the order of $50,000 plus legal costs,"
he said.

His comments, published in the industry magazine Hospital and Healthcare, follow
a well-publicised Melbourne case last month.

A woman who had a tubal ligation sued her gynaecologist after giving birth to
twins. However, the Supreme Court judge concluded there was no evidence of
negligence and said the doctor had no duty to warn the woman there was a small
risk of the operation failing.

Mr Snowdon said there remained a significant number of Australian hospitals
using "outdated, inappropriate and quite dangerous consent forms for
sterilisation procedures".

This type of form included a statement signed by the patient to the effect that
"I have been advised that the procedure which I will undergo will produce
permanent sterility".

Mr Snowdon said such a form could allow a court to conclude that the hospital
had entered a contract unconditionally to produce permanent sterility. If this
was the case, the aggrieved patient might not be required to prove negligence.

The mere fact that the operation did not produce permanent sterility could
result in a damages award for breach of contract.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              491 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 9, 2004

Why can't we get legal aid to find out how our son died?;EXCLUSIVE: Death probe
blow for parents of boy who died after suspected hospital blunder

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 423 words


THE parents of a disabled boy who died following a suspected hospital blunder
are devastated after legal aid for a fatal accident inquiry was refused.

Simon Dolan, 17, died three days after having a feeding tube refitted to his
stomach at Yorkhill Sick Kids' Hospital in Glasgow.

His parents Joe, 51, and Karen, 44, believe Simon died because the tube was
wrongly inserted, and they have fought for a fatal accident inquiry to prove
their case.

However, with the inquiry just two weeks away, they have been told they won't
get the legal aid they desperately need, as they can't afford a solicitor.

Unemployed Joe, from Knightswood, said: "I feel sick. I've lost my son and every
time I try to approach one of the authorities for help I feel as though I get
punched in the face.

"I'm not able to represent myself in court because it's such a complicated case.
We need representation.

"We have fought long and hard for this inquiry because we want to prove our son
died due to negligence. We don't want another family having to go through what
we did."

The Scottish Legal Aid Board refused the Dolans' application.

A spokeswoman said it was the job of the duty procurator-fiscal to challenge the
circumstances of the case during a fatal accident inquiry.

She added: "Legal aid applications to fund separate legal representation for the
family in a fatal accident inquiry are only ever approved in exceptional
circumstances, such as deaths in police custody."

However, Cameron Fyfe, of Ross Harper solicitors, said he would be appealing
against the decision on behalf of the Dolans.

Mr Fyfe said: "I'm absolutely baffled by this decision. I can't think of a case
more deserving of legal aid.

"The medical evidence is very complex and the family need a solicitor."

The couple insist Simon's death was caused when his feeding tube was inserted
into his gut cavity instead of his stomach.

Karen was a full-time carer for Simon, who was born with the rare Cornelia de
Lange syndrome, which left him physically and mentally disabled. She said:
"Simon was the light of

our lives and he loved life."

When Simon was 15 he had a gastronomy tube inserted into his stomach that
allowed him to feed without choking.

He died after his feeding tube came loose and his family took him to Yorkhill to
have it refitted.

Simon's death certificate blamed a "mal-located gastronomy tube". It said the
underlying cause of the mal-location was "uncertain, pending results of further
investigations".

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATED: Joe and Karen feel they've been 'punched in the face' in
bid to find why Simon died

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              492 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

              November 18, 1995, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

Fired nurse gets $250,000 goodbye from hospital

BYLINE: By Desmond Bill TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 693 words


   The Toronto Hospital is going to pay $250,000 to a Jamaican-born nurse, and
her legal agent says it is to compensate her for her racially motivated
dismissal.

But a hospital official said: "She was an incompetent nurse who was looking
after babies and we paid her off to guarantee she did not come back.

"It cost $250,000 of your money and my money but it was the only way to make
sure she would not come back to Toronto Hospital," David Allen told a Star
reporter yesterday.

He insisted the settlement "had nothing to do with discrimination" and said one
of the reasons for settling it was that the case had already cost the hospital
$180,000 in legal fees.

Claudine Charley worked at the hospital as a registered nurse from June, 1989,
until she was fired in August, 1992. The Ontario Nurses' Association protested
her dismissal and took the case to arbitration.

Charley engaged Harry Kopyto, a disbarred lawyer, to act as her legal agent at
the arbitration hearings. She was also represented by the association lawyer.

Early last month, after 37 days of hearings, both sides agreed to go before a
mediator to try and settle the case.

An agreement was finally reached at 3 a.m. on Oct. 20 after a 10-hour
negotiating session at the Sheraton Centre Hotel.

The settlement was announced yesterday by Kopyto, who called it "the largest
award for systemic discrimination in the history of Canada."

Kopyto said another 70 days of arbitration hearings had been scheduled and
conceded the legal expenses were likely a factor in persuading the hospital to
settle.

But he said a more important reason was that the hospital wanted to avoid "major
embarrassment at some of the things coming out."

He claimed Charley "was a victim of systemic discrimination. She was
overscrutinized, overmonitored and when she made mistakes there was
overreaction. They made a big deal of the smallest thing.

"She also was denied an opportunity to remove herself from people with whom she
was in conflict; she was trapped in a situation of continuous tension and
anxiety."

Kopyto said the hospital tried to show Charley was incompetent by citing
mistakes she made in keeping charts and in failing to give the proper quantities
of medicine.

"Someone went through everything she had done for three years and came up with
every single thing to justify her dismissal, like being five minutes late for
work," he said in a telephone interview.

Kopyto said Charley found a new job soon after being fired. She now works at a
hospital in North York but was forced into bankruptcy and lost her house.

He said the payment to Charley amounts to a "punitive award" since she had
"relatively little monetary loss" as a result of being fired.

He also claimed that as part of the "award," she had been given a "helpful
reference" by the hospital.

Allen pointed out, however, that the money is not an award but a settlement and
the letter of reference simply states she worked at the hospital and gives the
dates of her employment.

Allen said Charley was fired because "she was an incompetent nurse who was
looking after babies. We were worried about the welfare of the newborns."

He said the hospital had spent $180,000 in legal fees for 37 days of hearings
and Kopyto had booked an additional 70 days, which would have run up huge
additional expenses.

"We had no assurance that this woman would be gone from our institution at the
end of this arbitration," he said in a phone interview. "The arbitrator could
have said, 'Take her back.' "

"We decided the only way to guarantee she would not come back to Toronto
Hospital was to offer her a settlement she would accept.

"It was the price we had to pay. We paid her off to guarantee she did not come
back."

He said it was "outrageous" for Kopyto to claim Charley was the victim of racial
discrimination.

"She was fired for not providing safe care to infants," he said.

Charley could not be reached for comment. A friend of hers told The Star she was
angry at Kopyto for having issued a public statement on the
settlement.settlement; firing; Toronto; Hospital; nurse

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              493 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                           February 1, 2014 Saturday

Hospital inundated with compensation claims from irate patients

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 793 words


BASILDON Hospital is facing hundreds of thousands of pounds in compensation
payouts after a legal firm lodged dozens of claims to the trust.

Specialist solicitors Leigh Day has made 64 claims to Basildon Hospital this
year from as far back as 2003 as more new cases come to light following the
fiasco at Staffordshire Hospitals.

It compares to a total of 57 negligence claims made against the hospital from
all solicitors in 2012/13. Leigh Day said the total number of claims against the
hospital that year could be even higher.

Claims include patients being left in soiled bedding, delays in treatment and
pain relief, and delays in referrals.

In some cases patients allegedly died as a result of the hospital's actions.

The majority of cases refer to patients aged 60 and over, but one involves a
patient under 18.

Most have come to light from 2012, with Leigh Day dealing with three times as
many claims during that year than any other.

Emma Jones, solicitor in Leigh Day's human rights department, said: "We consider
these issues to be human rights issues as well as negligent.

"The failure to ensure someone has enough to eat and drink, be given medication
and being taken to the bathroom are human rights."

Leigh Day is dealing with 225 cases from 39 hospitals and 37 hospital trusts
across the country.

The number of claims relating to Basildon Hospital account for more than a
quarter of all cases being dealt with, and nearly double any other trust.
Barking Havering and Redbridge Trust, which has the second highest number of
cases against it, faces 34 compensation claims.

Miss Jones added: "It's difficult to pinpoint exactly why Basildon Hospital has
so many more cases against it than other trusts. I think it suggests standards
have been noticeably low for a longer period of time."

Basildon Hospital and the NHS Litigation Authority refused to say the total
number of active compensation claims against the hospital.

RELATIVES of patients who died at the hands of Basildon Hospital have estimated
the trust may need to pay out up to £1million in compensation.

While solicitors and Basildon Hospital refused to put a figure on the 64
compensation claims made against the hospital, victims expect the hospital could
be out of anything from £60,000 to £1million.

Christine Papalabropoulos, whose daughter Tina died in 2009 of pneumonia, has
already been awarded £3,000 compensation from the Health Service Ombudsman -
£2,000 from the hospital trust and £1,000 from South Essex Emergency Doctors'
Surgeries. But she is one of 64 who have launched a private compensation claim.

Christine, 57, of Harris Drive, Wickford, said: "It's not about the money, but
about the anger you feel towards the hospital. If you told me there were this
many claimants five years ago I would be surprised but nothing surprises me now.

"We are human beings, not a slab of meat, but we are not being treated like
human beings."

Dan Chapple, who founded Cure the NHS after his mother Pam died of a brain
haemorrhage, said: "It's very hard to tell howmuch the hospital will have to
pay. It could be anything from £60,000 to £1million. It depends on how many
dependents the victim has, how much of their working life is left, and howmuch
of a mess the hospital has made.

"I hope Leigh Day doesn't try to settle out of court for silence, otherwise the
problems won't come to light, will be swept under the carpet, and changes won't
be made."

BASILDON Hospital had to pay out more than £5million in compensation claims last
year.

NHS insurers paid a total of £5,081,234 in 2012/13 for claims against the
hospital.

Hospital bosses said the figure is close to the national average.

It paid a total of £2.625million in damages, £1.997million in claimants' legal
costs and £457,894 to cover its own legal fees.

In total, 57 negligence claims were made against Basildon Hospital. This year 64
have been brought against the trust by Leigh Day alone.

BASILDON Hospital has been praised for improving standards of care.

Keogh inspectors, who first visited the hospital in May last year, said the
hospital was addressing levels of staffing and concerns about patient care after
they inspected the site again in November.

Hospital bosses have agreed to round table discussions with Leigh Day about all
their cases in a bid to save legal costs on both sides.

A spokesman for the hospital said: "The trust has received a list from Leigh Day
solicitors and we are currently in contact with them regarding a number of these
cases.

"We have not received any similar joint actions from other solicitors.

"We would encourage anybodywho is unhappywith their care, or the care provided
to a relative, to contact our Patient Advice and Liaison Service so issues can
be quickly addressed and we can learn from any mistakes."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              494 of 993 DOCUMENTS


              The Times and Democrat (Orangeburg, South Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday

Hospital says it's willing to back off risky investments

BYLINE: Gene Zaleski, The Times and Democrat, Orangeburg, S.C.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1053 words


Jan. 24--The Regional Medical Center Board of Trustees says it's willing to
change the investment strategy that some Orangeburg County Council members
consider risky. But it also wants council to approve a $22 million borrowing
plan for the hospital.

In addition, the hospital is asking County Council to back down from its public
criticism of the hospital, saying it could harm the hospital in the bond market.

A Jan. 13 letter to County Council Chairman Harry Wimberly released Tuesday
notes that the controversy "will make the (bond) issue less attractive to the
market and, therefore, more expensive."

The hospital board, in the letter signed by then-board Chairman Willie B. Owens,
says the "constant controversy between county council and the hospital is also a
negative for our community."

"It is a negative for county council and for the hospital," the letter
concluded. "We again state our desire to work with county council in building
the county rather than fighting over issues that tear down the community.

"We approach this issue in the spirit of compromise in an attempt to move
forward together."

The hospital board and Orangeburg County Council have been involved in a number
of controversies, ranging from ambulance funding to whether the hospital should
be sold or leased. County Council members have also questioned the formation of
the Edisto Health Foundation Inc., which the hospital created as a separate
entity so it can make investments it otherwise wouldn't be allowed to make.

The Regional Medical Center is owned by Orangeburg and Calhoun counties.

Wimberly said Wednesday any negative impact of the controversy "will be created
by RMC."

"We are only trying to do the right thing," he said.

Calhoun County Council Chairman David Summers sided with the hospital, noting
that the controversy cannot help the hospital.

"I don't understand," Summers said. "We put out one fire over there and they
start up another one to put out. It is time for it to be stopped. I would like
them to sit down and talk to us about where the problems are.

We don't see the problems they seeing going on in Orangeburg."

In the letter, Owens defended the formation and the fiscal prudence of the
Edisto Health Foundation Inc. The foundation has a separate board, including
some hospital board members.

The hospital board offered its willingness to "modify the investment policy set
for the Foundation" in a "spirit of resolving differences" between the legal
opinions of the county and the hospital.

Orangeburg county attorney D'Anne Haydel has publicly questioned why the
creation of the foundation in 2006 and its investments were not better
publicized.

Calhoun County Council has not questioned the hospital board's decisions related
to the foundation.

The letter states the hospital would consider modifying the investment policy so
that it would "comply with investments required for a governmental entity."

"In making such a change, we presume that the county would then look favorably
on approval of the upcoming bond issue by RMC," the letter states, adding that
any change would require 30 days to 45 days to update the hospital's investment
portfolio.

The hospital is still waiting for Orangeburg County Council approval to enter
the bond market to borrow $22 million. About half of the money would go toward
reimbursement of prior expenses and the other half toward future projects.
Calhoun County Council has approved the borrowing.

"The hospital would like to have an understanding with the county that the
investment policy be modified if the lawyers for each side could agree," the
letter continued.

The letter does, however, add that the "Board views the Foundation and the use
of equity investments as a financial positive for the hospital and is reluctant
to modify its current situation based on legal opinions."

The board at its Tuesday meeting requested council to respond in writing to the
letter.

Under the foundation, the hospital can make a wider range of investments at a
higher return than it could otherwise.

The hospital makes a 1 percent to 4 percent return on its investments.

The EHF was given $25.4 million of the hospital's money to invest, with about
$4.6 million of the investment put in hedge funds or higher-risk funds that
would bring larger returns.

Since its investment June 30, 2006, the foundation has grown $2.8 million to
$28.3 million. The foundation has yielded returns of about 20 percent.

Both Orangeburg County Council and its hospital board appointees met in closed
session to discuss the foundation Jan. 11. The entire Jan. 11 meeting was held
in executive session and details were not provided after the meeting.

Wimberly said Wednesday he had no problem with the formation of the foundation
but with the prudence of the investment.

"I want the investments to be made in accordance with what a public entity can
do with the investment. I want the investment made in accord with ... a
governmental entity," Wimberly said.

Summers said Calhoun County Council is not concerned about the foundation or its
investments.

"They have had legal briefings from a couple of well-respected law firms in
South Carolina," he said "There is nothing wrong with the bond issuance they
have."

Summers added the investment structure is well in line with other similar
institutions.

"Anything can be too risky," he said. "You can get out on the highway to drive
home and it is risky. They (the hospital board) feel it is not a bad investment
and I tend to go along with their legal staff."

Summers said government agencies "can't get but so much" on investments and that
"it is all well and good to make a little money off the money."

Owens, who has since resigned from the hospital board because he is running for
Orangeburg County Council, said the foundation was formed "upon what the board
considers to be sound legal advice" and for the "purpose of supporting RMC and
its mission."

To see more of The Times and Democrat, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.timesanddemocrat.com. Copyright (c) 2007, The Times and Democrat,
Orangeburg, S.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070124-GG-HOSPITAL-INVEST-20070124

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GG


                     Copyright 2007 The Times and Democrat


                              495 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              May 7, 1985 Tuesday

Involuntary psychiatric patients   Right to legal counsel is being denied

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 604 words


By  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
 Involuntary psychiatric patients in Ontario hospitals are being deprived
 of their right to legal counsel - to which they became entitled more than
 a year ago - because of bureaucratic wrangling at Queen's Park.

The Ministries of Health and the Attorney-General and Ontario's Legal
 Aid Plan have not resolved the issue of how to comply with legislation
 intended to provide legal assistance for involuntary psychiatric patients.

The three-way dispute has dragged on since March, 1984, when changes to
 the province's Mental Health Act required hospitals to notify legal aid
 directors of all psychiatric patients detained against their will.

The legislation was changed to improve the rights of involuntary
 patients, particularly their access to a lawyer and appeal of their
 committal to a regional review board.

But, instead of processing the notices of committal and making lawyers
 available to patients, legal aid was instructed to do nothing. Opposition
 MPPs charged in the Legislature last year that legal aid throws the
 certificates into the garbage or files them away.

Few hospitals provide duty counsel for involuntary patients.
    "It's an unacceptable situation," Tracy Tremayne-Lloyd, chairman of the
 Ontario health law section of the Canadian Bar Association, said in an
 interview. Ms Tremayne- Lloyd's section recently passed a resolution
 calling on Queen's Park to take "immediate steps" to provide some way to
 ensure adequate legal advice for involuntary patients.

Between April 1, 1984, and last March 31, there were more than 10,500
 admissions to psychiatric and general hospitals - about one- fifth of all
 admissions in the province for psychiatric care.
    "Something is very badly needed, because most involuntary patients are
 not aware of their rights," Carla McKague, a Toronto mental health lawyer,
 said in an interview yesterday. "I've had two situations in which an
 involuntary patient was refused permission to contact legal aid and
 another was refused the application form to appeal the commital."
    Part of the delay in deciding who will pick up the tab for the lawyers
 - or whether a cheaper solution can be found - is being blamed on Bruce
 Noble, chairman of the legal aid committee of the Law Society of Upper
 Canada.

Initially, Mr. Noble took the position that the law did not specify
 what the area directors were to do when they received the commital notice.

In a letter to legal aid area directors, Mr. Noble said "my real
 concern is that I don't wish the Legal Aid Plan to become involved in
 assuming any initiating responsibilities under the Mental Health Act."
    The area directors are "not under any obligation to do anything upon
 receipt of the certificate or notice (of commital) . . . as I read the
 legislation, the forwarding of the notice is simply to forewarn the area
 director" that an involuntary patient might apply for legal representation
 if they appeal the commital.

Neither Mr. Noble nor Doug Ewart, who is responsible for Legal Aid for
 the Attorney-General, could be reached for comment. Debi Mauro, an
 official with the mental health division of the Health Ministry, said
 yesterday that a task force with representatives from the Attorney-
 General's office, the Ministry of Health and Ontario's Legal Aid Plan, has
 been dealing with the issue but she refused to elaborate on its proposals.

The Government is considering expanding its psychiatric patient
 advocate program for patients admitted involuntarily to psychiatric wards
 of general hospitals. The Health Ministry may also make about $200,000
 available to legal aid to hire lawyers for involuntary patients.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              496 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 31 1989, Tuesday

A teaching hospital to cure lawyers' ills; Legal Brief

BYLINE: TONY SMITH, QC, and NADIA SHARIFF

SECTION: Issue 63305.

LENGTH: 748 words


Standards must be improved, write Tony Smith, QC, and Nadia Shariff

At the moment lawyers are in the news. The Lord Chancellor, Lord Mackay of
Clashfern, last week produced far-reaching Green Papers with barely three months
for the legal profession to consider the proposals. They recommend the breakdown
of restrictive practices, extending rights of audience for solicitors into the
higher


courts and the evolution of

multi-disciplined professional practices.

What is likely to happen? This much is clear: the Government and, we suspect,
the public, will expect fundamental change. Very soon lawyers will have to face
up to a future in which they will be expected to work ever more closely with
organizations that provide the public, for fee or for free, with more than one
professional discipline. And they will also have to work more closely with each
other.

What matters? Not, we think, the preservation of traditional stamping grounds
which may have little but history to commend them. The things that matter in any
profession are standards; the honest, high-quality preparation and presentation
of the real merits of a case in court; the best legitimate advancement of an
argument that the client has not the skill to present for himself; trust;
integrity; a voice to be relied on by litigant and judge alike. We have,
frankly, too little of these things on both sides of the legal profession. Its
standards need to improve; and the litigating public deserves a better service
than it gets, and better value for its money.

It is a question of education in the law as much as organization in the law. We
believe both to be deficient. As long ago as 1971, the Ormrod Committee spoke of
'the traditional antithesis between 'academic' and 'vocational', 'theoretical'
and 'practical' which has divided the universities from the profession in the
past (and) must be eliminated by adjustment on both sides'.

Ormrod did not envisage a professional environment in which teaching would
occur, to enhance a student's understanding of practical skills applicable to
that profession.

Imagine now a teaching hospital for lawyers. It occupies a single building. In
it there are three independent elements: a firm of solicitors, a set of
barristers' chambers, and a department through which litigants in those parts of
the legal system not covered by legal aid can be represented in such cases
without fee. To this hospital will come students studying for law degrees. They
will have access, for the purposes of tuition, to the solicitors and the
barristers.

Closely supervised by the practitioners in the hospital and their academic
teaching staff, they will interview clients attending the free representation
department and, eventually, represent them. Ultimately, a complete legal service
for all sections of the public, fee-paying, legally aided and freely
represented, will be provided by the hospital; and students will receive what is
at present not available anywhere: a practical vocational education stemming
from actual participation in, and supervision by, the profession they intend to
enter.

All the essential embryonic features of such a concept have come into existence,
and been demonstrated to be workable, over the past two years in the Birmingham
Free Representation Scheme.

But while the Birmingham scheme has achieved closer co-operation between
barristers and academics, it still has not brought about closer co-operation
between both sides of the legal profession within a teaching setting or within
one organization. To create a teaching hospital in the way now proposed does not
amount to anything so radical or revolutionary that it would undermine the two
legal professions as they exist today.

Whatever the professions decide to do, some change is inevitable. If such
concepts as the teaching hospital are encouraged, they will not be harmful; and
the teaching idea will at the very least provide a much-needed free service to
the public. Legal aid cannot be provided in all areas of the law; and
organizations such as the Birmingham scheme will have to expand.

The teaching hospital will do more. It will encourage students embarking on a
career in the legal profession to work in environments where co-operation
between professionals is essential and that, necessarily, in the pursuit of
excellence and the highest professional standards.

The authors are founders of the Birmingham Free Representation Scheme.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited


                              497 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                              May 28, 2017 Sunday

Govt slammed over absence of female MLOs in city

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 83

LENGTH: 215  words


Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) legislator Khurrum Sherzaman on Saturday
expressed outrage over a lack of female medico-legal officers (MLOs) in three
major Karachi hospitals.

Sherzaman said that only five MLOs were available at city hospitals -- Jinnah
Post Graduate Medical Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi
Shaheed Hospital. Out of these five female MLOs, two are on medical leave.

The neglect regarding availability of female MLOs in Karachi by the PPP
government in Sindh is surprising given that it claims to be a 'champion' of
women's rights in Pakistan.

As per rules, every government hospital should have additional police surgeon of
grade-19, two senior female medico-legal officers of grade-18 and three female
medico-legal officers of grade-17. Accordingly, Karachi should have 71 MLOs of
which nine should be female.

He underlined the importance of MLOs when it comes to the criminal justice
system in Pakistan in terms of investigation process as they conduct autopsies
and examine the victims of violent crimes such as rapes in order to aid the
court and prosecution in criminal cases.

Sherzaman demanded that the chief minister and the home minister immediately
fill the vacancies of female MLOs at Jinnah Hospital, Civil Hospital and Abbasi
Shaheed Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              498 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                  May 11, 2014

The battle for Blackrock Clinic

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 780 words


A fund controlled by British financial tycoon Chris Hohn has moved to seize
control of a vital stake in the Blackrock Clinic, Ireland's largest private
hospital.

TCI, a multibillion-euro fund, had initially backed Blackrock founders Joseph
Sheehan and John Flynn in buying up loans related to the hospital from Irish
Bank Resolution Corporation (IBRC) earlier this year. However, in a dramatic
move, it has now called in the loans in a bid to gain control of a crucial stake
in the hospital.

Both Flynn and Sheehan have launched legal actions to oppose the deal, *The
Sunday Business Post*has learned.

Due to a complex guarantee structure, Sheehan's loans, which TCI now has control
over, could unlock the hospital's ownership structure. The deal could also allow
TCI to buy the shares from the hospital's other shareholders, including beef
magnate Larry Goodman, to potentially sell the highly profitable private
hospital.

TCI had set up a Irish corporate vehicle with Sheehan and Flynn to buy the EUR
23.4 million in loans. Since then, TCI has moved to seize full contorl of the
holding company.

Late last week, lawyers acting for Sheehan submitted papers to pursue a $100
million damages case against TCI. Flynn had already pulled out of the
consortium, due to a clause in the deal with the IBRC which would have forced
him to drop a number of legal actions.

Now a legal bid by Flynn to thwart the deal in a US court, due to strings
attached insisting that any successful bidder would have to drop a legal action
against agencies of the state, could play a vital role in the hospitals future.

Any deal on the Blackrock loans has to be approved by a US court as part of the
IBRC's Chapter 15 bankruptcy protection in the US, which the bank sought last
year to protect any loans related to US parties.

Delaware action

In a Delaware court this week, Flynn is planning to object to the deal due to a
clause which forced him to pull out of the proceedings, as he was unwilling to
drop a multimillion-euro legal action against Nama.

The loans, which were originally taken out by Sheehan, are crucial to control of
the hospital which has been the subject of internal wrangling for years.

Despite rows about its ownership, complex shareholder agreements and
multimillion-euro offers to buy the hospital, the shareholders in the clinic,
who include Sheehan, Flynn and beef baron Larry Goodman, have remained at an
impasse for years.

The TCI backed consortium had agreed a deal to buy Sheehan's loans in the
hospital, which stood at about EUR 16 million, alongside loans related to George
Duffy, which stood at about EUR 8 million, for more than par-value through an
Irish corporate vehicle. However, Duffy has since paid down his loans.

The ownership structure of the hospital has been brought into sharp focus due to
Denis O'Brien's interest in the Irish private healthcare market - the
billionaire was an underbidder for the Blackrock loans and recently took control
of the Beacon Private Hospital in Sandyford.

On the back of strong financial results, the Blackrock Clinic has attracted
attention from bidders on a number of occasions. However, due to a complex
agreement between shareholders, all the hospital's backers must consent if any
one shareholder wants to sell to a third-party, which led to the breakdown of a
potential deal when an international consortium made an offer of EUR 175 million
to buy the clinic in 2012.

Flynn led a number of former Anglo clients, including Sheehan, in a complex case
against the National Asset Management Agency under the auspices of the Rico act,
a well-known US law which was put on the statute books to deal with organised
crime, ''fraudulent interest charges, threatening enforcement of fraudulent
personal guarantees, and threatening seizures of assets and properties  .

In January a judge in Delaware also cleared the way for a group of former Anglo
Irish Bank borrowers to pursue a civil racketeering case against Nama, its chief
executive Brendan McDonagh and the former Anglo Irish Bank chairman Sean
FitzPatrick. Nama has said it    will defend the matter fully  .

While Sheehan has dropped the legal action to push through the Blackrock deal,
Flynn is unwilling to abandon the case, in which he is seeking more than EUR 30
million in damages. Instead Flynn stepped back from the consortium that agreed a
deal to buy the EUR 23.4 million debt related to the hospital and is now seeking
to block the deal.

.....

**By the numbers**

**EUR 23.4 m**Blackrock Clinic loans being sold by the IBRC

**EUR 175 m**the offer from an international consortium to buy the hospital in
2012

**EUR 30 m**the damages being sought by John Flynn as part of his civil Rico
case

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              499 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

NC hospital company breaks information law

LENGTH: 259  words


A Charlotte attorney has sued Carolinas HealthCare System, saying it has
violated the state public records law.
Charlotte attorney Gary Jackson has accused the operator of Carolinas Medical
Center and more than 30 other hospitals of keeping secret the terms of a legal
settlement, The Charlotte Observer (http://bit.ly/12JI4aN) reported.


Carolinas HealthCare won a confidential settlement in a complaint it filed
against the former Wachovia Bank.
The settlement followed a 2008 lawsuit in which Carolinas HealthCare accused the
bank of breaking a promise to put the hospital system's money in low-risk
investments.
One of the Wachovia investments plummeted from about $15 million to less than $2
million, the Carolinas HealthCare lawsuit said.
The hospital system's board of directors went into closed session in 2011 to
approve the settlement, Jackson's lawsuit says, and the hospital system refused
to provide a copy of the agreement.
Jackson says the system has no legal right to keep the settlement confidential.
He says the public deserves more information than it is getting.
The hospital system says the state public records law does not require it to
release such settlements.
Mark Merritt, a lawyer representing the hospital system, said defendants tend to
be willing to pay more in settlements with confidentiality clauses.
Superior Court Judge Robert Sumner is considering the hospital's request to
dismiss Jackson's lawsuit.
Merritt said the public records law is unclear.
"I describe it as a Swiss cheese," Merritt said. "It's got a lot of holes in
it."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved
