                               7 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

8,372 medico-legal, postmortem cases reported in 2016

SECTION: Vol. 10 No. 32

LENGTH: 309  words


The Medico Legal Department of Karachi has issued an annual report on medico-
legal and postmortem examination cases conducted in 2016. The annual report,
issued by Police Surgeon Karachi, stated that 8,372 people were reported in
three major medico-legal sections of Karachi, including Jinnah Postgraduate
Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital, while six
small medico-legal sections are Sindh Government Lyari General Hospital, Sindh
Government Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh
Government Qatar Hospital Orangi, Sindh Government Hospital Korangi and Sindh
Government Hospital New Karachi As many as 8,372 medico-legal  and  postmortem
examination cases were registered in the city in 2016 out of which 6,578 were
medico-legal and 1,794 postmortems. In Karachi, out of the 6,578 medico-legal
cases, 3,170 were hard  and  blunt assault, 191 sharp-edge, 411 fire arm, 101
explosive, two human bite, seven maltreatment and 113 dead bodies during the
year. Around 793 road accidents, four railway accidents, 483 burn incidents, 39
factory accidents and 271 dead bodies were reported in ML Sections in 2016.
Eighty-nine sexual assault active (rape) and 190 passive cases were reported
previous years.

Sixteen (active) sodomy and 24 passive cases were also reported. Intoxication
cases: As many as 382 poison, 97 alcohol, 16 drugs and 37 miscellaneous cases
were reported during the year. The report further stated that a total of 1,794
postmortem examinations were also carried out in 2016 out of which 46 were hard
and  blunt assault, 62 sharp-edge, 675 fire arms, 39 explosive and 77 asphyxia.
Around 558 road accident, 66 railway accidents, 32 burns, 50 fall, 29 drowning,
20 electric shocks, nine custodial death, 24 exhumation, seven passion and 46
miscellaneous cases were examined last year.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


