                              95 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             June 16, 1991, Sunday

Hospital releases legal costs

BYLINE: By Robert J. Vickers Staff writerhospitals; gwinnett/county; finances;
investigations; costs; law; lawsuits

SECTION: EXTRA; SECTION J; PAGE 01

LENGTH: 612 words


Answering concerns that it is paying too much in legal fees, the Gwinnett
Hospital System (GHS) released figures Friday indicating that it has paid an
average of $ 208,700 a year for outside counsel since 1987.

"Any way you look at it, we're running a business," Gwinnett Hospital Authority
Chairman Jim E. Hinshaw Sr. said Friday. "It's a fact of life that hospitals,
just like any other business, have got to employ lawyers to take care of you.
And it's a fact of life that the law is written in such a way that it takes a
lawyer to interpret the laws."

The figures were compiled at the request of state Rep. Vinson Wall
(R-Lawrenceville), who told the county system he wanted a breakdown of legal
expenses for the past five years and salaries for employees who make more than $
50,000 annually.

Some residents are concerned that while GHS is complaining about the County
Commission's $ 500,000 reduction in funding for indigent care, it is spending
too much fighting a planned expansion by competitor Humana Hospital Gwinnett -
which wants to move its operation to another location in Snellville.

The Hospital Authority's executive committee will meet Wednesday and is expected
to discuss possible actions concerning Humana's move.; Focus on largest firm

Mr. Wall's inquiry focused specifically on Atlanta's largest law firm, King &
Spalding, which was paid a $ 10,000 retainer by GHS this year for possible
future action against Humana's application for a state certificate of need for
the new hospital.

GHS has a staff attorney, W. Howard Fowler, but he advises the Hospital
Authority on legal strategy, and most legal actions are contracted out, said GHS
spokeswoman Cheryl Iverson.

Mr. Fowler has the added responsibility of operating the GHS Foundation - a
private fund-raising agency for the hospital system, she said.

According to GHS, the breakdown of spending includes:

1987 - $ 111,427 to three law firms.

1988 - $ 168,968 to eight firms.

1989 - $ 256,054 to seven firms.

1990 - $ 298,517 to six firms.

So far this year, figures indicate the hospital system has paid $ 139,136 to
seven law firms.

King & Spalding, which Ms. Iverson said is used primarily for civil cases, has
been paid about $ 28,000 this year - GHS's second-largest legal expense thus far
in 1991.

Atlanta's fourth-largest firm, Powell, Goldstein, Frazier & Murphy, was paid
more than $ 235,000 in 1990 and has received $ 58,000 in 1991. Most of the fees
were for the preparation of and appeals regarding certificate-of-need
applications for a psychiatric substance abuse center and for permission to
perform open-heart surgery, Ms. Iverson said.

GHS was certified for the abuse center, and the appeal for open- heart surgery
is ongoing.

"Our hospital was built in 1983 and we've come from nothing to just about being
on the cutting edge of excellence," Mr. Hinshaw said. "I'm proud of our system."

Other information requested by Mr. Wall included which staffers are furnished a
car by GHS and a list of employees paid more than $ 50,000 a year.

Mr. Wall could not be reached for comment.

GHS President Frank M. Rinker is the only staffer provided a car, and he and Mr.
Fowler are the two highest-paid hospital employees of the 29 earning above $
50,000, according to the GHS disclosure.

Most of the 29 hold administrative positions, but eight staff nurses also earn
more than $ 50,000, according to GHS.

"It's just a matter of being competitive," said Mr. Hinshaw. "The problem with
us is that we're so far behind. On the nursing scale we're competitive, but in
administration we're probably 10 to 15 percent behind."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The last paragraph did not appear in the final edition.

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


