                              12 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday

70% postmortems at YCMH on accident victims

SECTION: PUNE

LENGTH: 782 words


PUNE: Of the 16,000 postmortems conducted by the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial
Hospital (YCMH), run by Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), in the
last 13 years, 70 per cent were on those who died in accidents.

R R Iyer, medical director, PCMC said, "The postmortem centre in YCMH is known
as the second largest forensic medicine unit after Sassoon General Hospital in
Pune."

Iyer said, "YCM hospital, a 650-bed hospital, was opened on March 17, 1989.
Deaths in accidents require police investigation and since two national highways
pass through the PCMC limits, such cases are brought to YCM hospital. In fatal
accidents, postmortem is done to ascertain the cause and time of death, while in
some cases postmortem is done to find evidence".

Iyer said before the postmortem centre at YCM hospital was opened, bodies were
sent for medico legal examination to Sassoon Hospital in Pune, which is 16 km
away from Pimpri.

To save time, money and inconvenience to relatives of the dead, PCMC, in 1993,
sought the state government permission to examine medico legal cases and conduct
postmortems at YCM hospital. The postmortem centre here was opened on January 1,
1997.

"In the first year itself, 462 medico legal postmortems were done. Over the
years, this figure increased and crossed the 1,000 mark in 2002 when 1,040
postmortems were conducted. From 2007 onwards, the number of postmortems
conducted in a year has been around 1,700. The highest number of postmortems --
1,789 -- were conducted in 2008. This year, 1,550 postmortems have been done so
far", Iyer said.

Meanwhile YCM hospital has organised a symposium on Legal aspects of medical
practise' at Autocluster, Chinchwad, at 10 am, on November 27. Discussions will
be held about medico legal cases, legal provisions, analyses in relation to
insurance, medical records required for judicial purposes, human rights issues
and others. Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor Yogesh Behl will inaugurate the symposium to
be attended by 130 doctors.

Postmortems at YCMH in the last 13 years

* Accidents (road, railway and others): 70 %

* Suicide: 5 %

* Homicide (mechanical, firearms, strangling, throttling): 10 %

* Natural and others: 15 %

Eom/siddharth gaikwad/md

----------------------------

PAGE 7

cleared/md

story: 70 pc of 16000 post-mortems at YCM were of accident victims

Times News Network

Pune: The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) run Yashwantrao Chavan
memorial (YCM) hospital has conducted 16,000 post-mortems of medico legal cases
in the past 13 years, out of which 70 percent were accident victims.

R R Iyer, medical director, PCMC said, "The post-mortem centre in YCM hospital
is known as the second largest forensic medicine unit after Sassoon hospital in
Pune."

Iyer said, "YCM hospital, a 650 bed hospital, was started on March 17, 1989.
Deaths in accidents require investigation by police and since two national
highways pass through PCMC limits, such cases are brought to YCM hospital. In
fatal accidents post-mortem is done to ascertain the cause and time of death,
while in some cases post-mortem is done to find evidence".

He added that prior to opening of the post-mortem centre at YCM hospital, the
victims were sent for medico legal examination to the Sassoon hospital in Pune
which is 16 kilometers away from Pimpri. To save time, money and inconvenice to
victims and relatives PCMC sought permission from the state government to
examine medico legal cases and conduct post-mortems at YCM hospital in 1993. The
post-mortem centre started functioning at the YCM hospital from January 1, 1997.

"In the first year itself, 462 medico legal post-mortems were done in 1997. This
figure increased over the years and crossed the 1,000 mark in 2002 when 1,040
post-mortems were conducted. From 2007 onwards the number of post-mortems
conducted annually is in the range of 1700. The highest number of post-mortems -
1789 - were done in 2008. During the current year 1,550 post-mortems have been
done so far", Iyer said.

Meanwhile YCM hospital has organised a symposium on Legal aspects of medical
practise' at Autocluster, Chinchwad on November 27 at 10 am. Discussions will be
held about medico legal cases, analysis of these cases, legal provisions,
analysis from the point of insurance, medical records required for judicial
purposes, human rights issues and others. Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor Yogesh Behl
will inaugurate the symposium to be attended by 130 doctors.

Box: Post-mortems at YCM hospital in past 13 years

Accidents (road, railway and others): 70 %

Suicide (hanging, burns, poisoning): 5 %

Homicide (mechanical, firearms, strangling, throttling): 10 %

Natural and others: 15 %

Eom/siddharth gaikwad/md

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


