                              116 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday

CHRISTUS ST. VINCENT MEDICAL CENTER;
CEO EARNED $616K IN 2010

BYLINE: Phaedra Haywood

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 608 words


After receiving a big raise in 2009 -- about 18 percent -- Christus St. Vincent
Regional Medical Center's chief executive officer, Alex Valdez, saw only an
incremental increase in his pay in 2010, according to tax documents recently
filed by the Santa Fe general hospital.

According to the hospital's tax return for the 2010 fiscal year, Valdez's annual
salary rose only by about $1,000 a year to $616,000 for the fiscal year that
ended in June 2011.

But he remains one of the area's best-paid executives. By comparison, new
University of New Mexico President Robert Frank will be paid $355,000, Santa Fe
County Manager Katherine Miller is paid $154,999, City Manager Robert Romero
earns $128,000, Gov. Susana Martinez earns $110,000, and her cabinet secretary
for the state Department of Health gets paid $122,500. The Santa Fe school board
has voted to pay the next superintendent of public schools a maximum of
$180,000.

In 2010, the salary for the nation's chief executive, President Barack Obama,
was $395,188.

Others on the Christus St. Vincent payroll did see sizable increases in
compensation, the most recent tax documents show. For example, then Chief
Financial Officer Paul Generale (who was later replaced by Todd Mason) received
about $409,619 in the 2010 fiscal year compared to about $376,580 the year
before.

Chief Operating Officer Bruce Tassin's compensation increased to $510,605 from
about $441,198.

Some high-ranking hospital officials saw a reduction in their pay between the
two years.

Former Chief Medical Officer Kevin Garret -- who left the organization abruptly
several months ago -- saw his compensation drop from about $430,436 to $404,084
in 2010.

Physician Samuel Chun, who was the highest paid employee at the hospital in
fiscal year 2009 with a compensation of about $956,671, saw that fall to
$764,397 in 2010.

Chun was replaced as the top earner at the hospital this year by Donald Shina,
the medical director of the hospital's cancer center, who was paid about $1.26
million in 2010, almost double the $688,635 he received in the previous year.

Hospital spokesman Arturo Delgado said Wednesday the pay of certain staffers is
determined by the number of patients they see.

In total, the private nonprofit hospital reportedly cleared about $24.2 million
after expenses in 2010, a slight increase from the 2009 number of $21.3 million.

Another item of note in the tax document is the hospital's budget for legal
fees.

According to the 2009 form, the hospital spent a mere

$3,372 on legal expenses in the fiscal year that ended in June 2010.

But the hospital reported setting aside $8.2 million for legal expenses for
fiscal year 2010, which ended in

June 2011.

An explanation on the hospital's website said the increase was "the result of an
adjustment per our annual actuarial study for medical malpractice lawsuit
reserves, and accruals for other legal costs."

Delgado said the hospital in fiscal year 2009 had placed about $1.6 million in
reserve for legal fees, but most of it wasn't used and reverted back to the
hospital's general fund.

Delgado said that the $3,372 number listed in the 2009 tax documents is an
accurate reflection of what was spent in 2009.

Delgado said the hospital placed $8 million in reserves for fiscal year 2010
after a study determined that the hospital could need it to pay medical
malpractice fees and other fees for legal matters, some of which are still
pending.

Delgado said some of that money may also end up back in the hospital's coffers
eventually.

Delgado said he couldn't comment further on the

nature of the cases still in litigation.

Contact Phaedra Haywood at 986-3068 or phaywood@sfnewmexican.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: See pdf's for exact rendition, caption, graphics and photographer info.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 The Santa Fe New Mexican
                              All Rights Reserved


