                              174 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                    August 23, 1997, Saturday, ALL EDITIONS

Grady's lawyer costs rising;
Outside the curve: While many hospitals are trimming legal fees by hiring more
in-house attorneys, Grady increasingly retains prestigious law firms.

BYLINE: David Pendered; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 06E

LENGTH: 616 words


Fees paid to lawyers by Grady Health System rose 52 percent in the past five
years as private law firms were increasingly used to manage a growing workload
at the system that oversees Grady Memorial Hospital.

Legal costs, which exclude sums paid in court fines and settlements, swelled to
$ 2.52 million last year, up from $ 1.66 million in 1992, according to figures
provided by Grady, Georgia's largest charity hospital. Grady's counterparts in
three other cities report that they have curbed their legal expenses by using
mainly in-house or government lawyers.

"It makes sense to have in-house people," said Conchita Topinka Ruiz,
spokeswoman for Miami's Jackson Memorial Hospital. "The amount of money we've
paid in legal expenses has gone down since we've begun using them." Legal fees
represent less than 1 percent of Grady's $ 446.5 million budget. But as lawyer
Robert Proctor, who recently settled a lawsuit against the hospital, noted,
"It's symptomatic of what's going on over there. When you add up $ 2.5 million
here and $ 2.5 million there, you run into some real money."

In Charlotte, last year's legal costs for in-house and private lawyers were less
than $ 1 million, a minuscule fraction of the $ 1.3 billion operation at
Carolinas HealthCare System, according to spokesman Scott White.

Former Grady board member John Sherman said one of Grady's private lawyers
advised the board last year that the hospital could save up to $ 500,000 a year
by hiring more in-house lawyers. At the wages Grady has set for its in-house
counsel, $ 47,000 to $ 115,000 a year, Sherman said it could hire lawyers
competent to handle contracts and chaperon committee meetings to address legal
issues that arise.

"Many times there were two private attorneys sitting in some of the meetings I
attended," Sherman said. "It's a ridiculous waste of taxpayer dollars."

Grady board Chairman Robert Brown said incessant turnover in the hospital's
legal affairs office prompted the board to increase reliance on private lawyers.
The legal affairs office is set up as a staff of two lawyers, a chief and
assistant. Since 1993, four chief lawyers have come and gone. The last left in
May, after serving fewer than eight months, and the position has not been
filled.

Meanwhile, the two largest increases in legal expenses have come in the areas of
launching a managed care program and in labor relations.

Some observers view the labor disputes as indication of morale problems stemming
from the departure of more than a dozen top executives in the past four years.

Defense costs associated with medical malpractice lawsuits, an area generally
thought to be on the rise, appear to have remained relatively constant.

Brown said he intends to ask the management consultants now reviewing Grady's
spending patterns to consider whether Grady should start a full-service in-house
law department, similar to those in several local governments such as Gwinnett
and Fulton counties and Atlanta.

While that issue is debated, Grady continues to retain Atlanta's more
influential law firms including one owned by Marvin Arrington, Atlanta City
Council president and mayoral candidate. The others are Alston & Bird, where Lt.
Gov. Pierre Howard works; Powell Goldstein Frazer & Murphy, where former Grady
counsel and former Arrington partner Lewis Horne works; James West; and Shreeder
Wheeler & Flint, which negotiated contract disputes during Grady's recent
renovation.  "We look for law firms with the greatest expertise in certain areas
so we get the best advice," Brown said. "The firms focus on areas we think are
critically important to the hospital (and) we feel comfortable with them."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Private attorneys were hired to resolve disputes with companies
involved
 in Grady Memorial Hospital's renovation, which included construction of a
 wing with a sweeping atrium. / KIMBERLY SMITH / Staff
 Chart: Grady's legal eagles
 Grady Health System retains five law firms to mainage its legal affairs.
 The total cost of paying private lawyers has risen 52 percent over the
 past five years.
 Firm
 Alston & Bird
 (Malpractice, corporate affairs)
 1992: $ 1,400,000
 1993: $ 1,872,934
 1994: $ 2,190,479
 1995: $ 1,625,818
 1996: $ 1,542,560
 Firm
 Arrington & Hollowell
 (Employment/labor issues)
 1992: $ 257,832
 1993: $ 149,883
 1994: $ 115,043
 1995: $ 368,010
 1996: $ 636,974
 Firm
 James West
 (Contracts and purchasing)
 1992: NA
 1993: NA
 1994: NA
 1995: $ 24,382
 1996: $ 55,075
 Firm
 Powell Goldstein Frazer & Murphy
 (Medicare issues)
 1992: NA
 1993: NA
 1994: NA
 1995: NA
 1996: $ 42,159
 Firm
 Schreeder Wheeler & Flint
 (Managed care and construction)
 1992: NA
 1993: NA
 1994: $ 47,577
 1995: $ 262,611
 1996: $ 244,474
 Totals
 1992: $ 1,657,832
 1993: $ 2,022,817
 1994: $ 2,353,099
 1995: $ 2,280,821
 1996: $ 2,521,242

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


