                              178 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                November 8, 2005

Anger over legal bid to halt threat to Frenchay

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 477 words


Health bosses have reacted with dismay to a legal bid to halt the downgrading of
Frenchay hospital. South Gloucestershire Council yesterday voted to seek advice
on mounting a High Court challenge to Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt's refusal
to re-examine a planned shake-up of city hospitals which would see Southmead
Hospital upgraded while Frenchay withers.

Sonia Mills, chief executive of North Bristol NHS Trust, which runs both
Frenchay and Southmead hospitals, said the move could delay the work by up to
two years - and add at least £36 millon to the costs involved.

And Bristol North West MP Doug Naysmith branded the council's refusal to give up
the fight to save Frenchay as "crazy" as the legal bid was bound to fail.

Taking legal advice is likely to cost the council up to £2,000. Taking the case
to the High Court is expected to cost £10,000 and, if the council were to lose
and be ordered to pay all of the legal costs, it could be landed with a bill of
more than £100,000.

Ms Mills said the judicial review South Gloucestershire Council is seeking would
take up to 10 months.

She said: "Our timetable is deliberately designed to ensure that we are at the
front of the queue of 25 major hospital schemes in other cities throughout
England which are at a similar stage of development.

"It is very clear that schemes which are delayed and fail to attract PFI
interest have to restart their process. A six to 10-month judicial review
process is likely to lead to a delay of 12 or even 24 months." Ms Mills said
delaying the scheme would drive up costs by reducing competition among potential
contractors as they became committed to other schemes.

She said: "All of this would impact upon the scale of what could be built." Mr
Naysmith said: "As far as I know, it has already been said that a judicial
review will not succeed, that the way the decision is made, it's very unlikely
that this will succeed.

"I think it's crazy that the cabinet is spending taxpayers' money on something
that will not succeed. It's time some of the local politicians in South
Gloucestershire stopped playing politics with something so important and decided
to have a great new hospital for South Gloucestershire and the whole of the
Bristol area." Pam Ward, secretary of the Joint Union Committee representing
North Bristol NHS Trust staff, was also worried by the delay South
Gloucestershire Council's legal bid will cause.

At yesterday's meeting, the council's cabinet was told it should know in about
three weeks whether it had a strong enough legal case to challenge the Bristol
Health Services Plan, a £500 million shake-up of hospital services in the
region.

The council's three-party ruling cabinet voted by seven votes to two in favour
of seeking legal advice over a judicial review, with Labour opposing the move.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


