                              176 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                              May 5, 2005 Thursday

Legal abortion rates steady since '90

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 476 words


Legal abortion rates have remained steady since 1990, and those that are
approved increasingly involve pregnancies resulting from incest, crime or
extramarital relations.

This is one of the findings of the Health Ministry's report, Legal Abortions:
1990-2003, which it released for publication Thursday.

In 2003, the legal abortion rate was 139 per 1,000 live births or 12.2 per 1,000
women aged 15 to 49.

This rate is low compared to those in 18 European countries, which range from
113.5 per 1,000 live births in Greece and 127.8 in Belgium to 579.3 in Hungary
and 1,275.8 in Russia. In nominal figures, 20,075 legal abortions were performed
in 2003.

A total of 21,226 women applied to 22 abortion committees in 22 public hospitals
and in 14 private hospitals and community clinics.

However, the Health Ministry does not provide any figures about illegal
abortions - or even hospital statistics on how many women were admitted to
emergency rooms with complications from illegal abortions.

Since 1990, the rate per 1,000 fertile women of applications to abortion
committees has declined by 23%, the rate of approvals has dropped by 15% and the
rate of actual legal abortions has fallen by 10%.

According to the 1980 Abortion Law, women may apply to an approved abortion
committee if she meets the criteria in any of four categories: the woman is
younger than 17 or over 40; continuing the pregnancy is liable to endanger the
woman's life or her physical or mental condition; the pregnancy results from
relations prohibited by criminal law, incest or from extra-marital relations; or
the fetus is liable to have a physical or mental disability.

In 2003, abortion committees approved 98% of all requests, a rise from 89% in
1990. Over 9,700 legal abortions were performed at approved private hospitals
and clinics.

In 2003, 54% of all legal abortions were due to extramarital/illegal relations
pregnancies; 18% due to danger to maternal health; 17% due to fetal defects; and
11% due to the mother's age.

Compared to 1990, use of the maternal health reason declined 40%, the fetal
defect reason by 23% and maternal age by 14%, but the extramarital/illegal
relations pregnancy reason increased by 16%.

The rate at which women underwent legal abortions remained steady between ages
20 and 39 and declined among teenage and young adult women up to the age of 20.

Legal abortions are carried out earlier than ever before, apparently thanks to
women applying earlier, quicker or more efficient deliberations by committees
and the use of Mifegyne, the abortion pill, which is the preferred method in
public (but not private) hospitals.

Late abortions were almost always performed in public hospitals (government,
health fund or Hadassah) rather than approved private hospitals and clinics -
and in the vast majority of cases, fetal defects that were discovered late were
the reason.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


