                              183 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                  2ND Edition

NEW pounds 451M ROYAL 'WILL BE BUILT';
Campaigner drops legal challenge

BYLINE: LIZA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 501 words


ROYAL Liverpool Hospital bosses today said they were "delighted" after a legal
challenge threatening its pounds 451m rebuild project was withdrawn.

They confirmed the path was now clear for the new hospital to be built.

Campaign group Keep Our NHS Public (KONP) was due to drag Royal bosses and the
department of health into the high court later this week.

But the group has now dropped the case.

KONP was against the use of private finance initiative (PFI) cash for the
project, which members said would leave the region with crippling debts and
could impact on future health services.

Tony Bell, chief executive at the Royal, said: "We are absolutely delighted to
hear this legal challenge is now over.

"We are sure the people of Merseyside, who have given so much support to the new
Royal, will be pleased to hear this news.

"We can now press ahead with the exciting task of working with our three bidders
to create a world-class hospital for the people of this city.

"We can also continue with our plans for the Liverpool BioCampus, which will
attract significant investment and development opportunities for the whole
city."

The hospital will narrow the list of bidders set to build the hospital down to
two in the coming months.

Liverpool council leader Joe Anderson said: "It is fantastic news. Now we can
get on with building a hospital which is fit for purpose, creating jobs and
apprenticeships."

At the end of January, leading campaigner Sam Semoff was told legal aid for his
case was being withdrawn by the Legal Services Commission and as a result he
withdrew the action.

The high court hearing, scheduled for Friday, was itself an appeal after Mr
Semoff 's initial application for a judicial review was thrown out.

It was the second time Mr Semoff had applied for a judicial review in a saga
which has run for two years.

The total legal bill for the challenges is estimated to be well into six
figures.

Health chiefs also predict each month the hospital was delayed added pounds 1m
to its cost.

The Royal estimates the project was put back by around six months, with a
finished hospital expected in late 2016.

KONP claimed the PFI scheme would cost at least pounds 1.24bn over 34 years,
while public finance would cost pounds 730m.

But health chiefs said these figures were not accurate.

A statement from KONP said: "Sam Semoff has principles but very little money.

"Very reluctantly, on legal advice, he has withdrawn his case.

"The campaign group Keep Our NHS Public Merseyside congratulates Sam on his
magnificent battle.

"Paying for PFI will be the top priority, coming before clinical need.

"Money will flow from the NHS to banks and private investors.

"The excess debt will force cuts in NHS services across Merseyside for the next
generation, pushing patients towards private healthcare."

Mr Semoff added: "Now the scheme's current costs are known, I call on directors
to formally request the government to allow public finance for Liverpool's new
hospital."

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PRINCIPLES BUT LITTLE MONEY: Sam Semoff has withdrawn the case

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


