                              205 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             August 4, 2008 Monday

U.S. hospitals repatriate uninsured patients;
Immigrants pose long-term burden

BYLINE: Deborah Sontag - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1685 words

DATELINE: JOLOMCU, Guatemala


Pilar Conci contributed reporting.

*

High in the hills of Guatemala, shut inside the one-room house where he spends
day and night on a twin bed beneath a seriously outdated calendar, Luis Alberto
Jiménez has no idea of the legal battle that swirls around him in the lowlands
of Florida.

Shooing away flies and beaming at the tiny, toothless elderly mother who is his
sole caregiver, Jiménez remains cheerily oblivious that he has come to represent
the collision of two deeply flawed American systems, immigration and health
care.

Eight years ago, Jiménez, 35, an illegal immigrant working as a gardener in
Stuart, Florida, suffered devastating injuries in a car crash with a drunken
Floridian. A community hospital saved his life, twice, and, after failing to
find a rehabilitation center willing to accept an uninsured patient, kept him as
a ward for years at a cost of $1.5 million.

What happened next set the stage for a continuing legal battle with nationwide
repercussions: Jiménez was deported - not by the U.S. government but by the
hospital, Martin Memorial. After winning a state court order that would later be
declared invalid, Martin Memorial leased an air ambulance for $30,000 and
''forcibly returned him to his home country,'' as one hospital administrator
described it.

Since being hoisted in his wheelchair up a steep slope to his remote home,
Jiménez, who suffered a severe traumatic brain injury, has received no medical
care or prescription medication - just Alka-Seltzer and prayer, his 72-year-old
mother said. Over the past year, his condition has deteriorated with routine
violent seizures, each characterized by a fall, protracted convulsions, a loud
gurgling, the vomiting of blood and, finally, a collapse into unconsciousness.

''Every time, he loses a little more of himself,'' his mother, Petrona Gervacio
Gaspar, said in Kanjobal, the Indian language that she speaks.

Jiménez's benchmark case exposes a little-known but apparently widespread
practice. Many U.S. hospitals are taking it upon themselves to repatriate
seriously injured or ill immigrants because they cannot find nursing homes
willing to accept the patients without insurance.

Medicaid does not cover long-term care for illegal immigrants or for newly
arrived legal immigrants. That creates a quandary for hospitals, which are
obligated by U.S. regulation to arrange post-hospital care for patients who need
it.

The U.S. immigration authorities play no role in these private repatriations,
which are carried out by ambulance, air ambulance and commercial plane. Most
hospitals say that they do not conduct cross-border transfers until patients are
medically stable and that they arrange to deliver the patients into the care of
physicians in their homelands. But the hospitals are operating in a void,
without governmental assistance or oversight, leaving ample room for legal and
ethical transgressions on both sides of the border.

Indeed, some advocates for immigrants see these repatriations as a kind of
international dumping of patients, with ambulances taking patients in the wrong
direction, away from first-world hospitals to lower-quality care, if any.

Hospital administrators view these cases as costly, burdensome patient transfers
that force them to shoulder responsibility for the dysfunctional immigration and
health care systems. In many cases, they say, the only alternative to
repatriations is keeping patients indefinitely in acute-care hospitals.

''What that does for us, it puts a strain on our system, where we're unable to
provide adequate care for our own citizens,'' said Alan Kelly, vice president of
Scottsdale Healthcare in Arizona. ''A full bed is a full bed.''

Medical repatriations are happening with a frequency and a degree of patient
consent that vary from state to state and hospital to hospital. No government
agency or advocacy group keeps track of these cases, and it is difficult to
quantify them.

Many hospitals engage in repatriations of seriously injured and ill immigrants
only as a last resort. ''We've done flights to Lithuania, Poland, Honduras,
Guatemala and Mexico,'' said Cara Pacione, director of social work at Mount
Sinai Hospital in Chicago. ''But out of about a dozen cases a year, we probably
fly only a couple back.''

Other hospitals are more aggressive, routinely sending uninsured immigrants,
both legal and illegal, back to their homelands. One Tucson hospital even tried
to fly a U.S. citizen, a sick baby whose parents were illegal immigrants, to
Mexico last year; the police, summoned by a lawyer to the airport, blocked the
flight.

Sister Margaret McBride, vice president for mission services at St. Joseph's in
Phoenix, which is part of Catholic Healthcare West, said families were rarely
happy about the hospital's decision to repatriate their relatives. But, she
added, ''we don't require consent from the family.''

In a case this spring that outraged Phoenix's Hispanic community, St. Joseph's
planned to send a comatose, uninsured legal immigrant back to Honduras, until
community leaders got lawyers involved. While they were negotiating with the
hospital, the patient, Sonia del Cid Iscoa, 34, who has been in the United
States for half her life and has seven American-born children, emerged from her
coma. She is back in her Phoenix home.

''I can think of three different scenarios that would have led to a fatal
outcome if they had moved her,'' said John Curtin, her lawyer. ''The good
outcome today is due to the treatment that the hospital provided - reluctantly,
and, sadly enough, only in response to legal and public pressure.''

Unlike Iscoa and Jiménez, most uninsured immigrant patients in repatriation
cases do not have advocates fighting for them, and they are quietly returned to
their home countries. Sometimes, their families accept that outcome because they
are told they have no options; sometimes they are grateful to the hospital for
paying their fare home, given that other hospitals leave it to relatives or
consulates to assume responsibility for the patients.

Jiménez's case is apparently the first to test the legality of cross-border
patient transfers that are undertaken without the consent of the patients or
their guardians - and the liability of the hospitals who undertake them.

''We're the rhesus monkey on this issue,'' said Scott Samples, a spokesman for
Martin Memorial.

The average stay at Martin Memorial, a relatively tranquil hospital with a
palm-frond design in its gleaming lobby floor and white-coiffed volunteers in
its gift shop, is 4.1 days and costs $8,188. Patients rarely linger.

In addition to trauma patients, there are uninsured immigrants with serious
health problems. ''In our emergency room, we don't turn anyone away,'' said
Carol Plato Nicosia, the director of corporate business services. ''The real
problem is if we find an underlying problem, and now we have six of them - six
patients who showed up in renal failure and that we are now seeing three times a
week for dialysis.''

''I don't want to sound heartless,'' Plato Nicosia said. ''A community hospital
is going to give care. But is it the right thing? We have a lot of American
citizens who need our help. We only make about 3 percent over our bottom line if
we're lucky. We need to make capital improvements and do things for our
community.''

Tax-exempt hospitals like Martin Memorial are expected to dedicate an
unspecified part of their services to charity cases, and Martin Memorial devoted
$23.9 million in 2006, about 3 percent, which was average for Florida, according
to state data.

Jiménez was an expensive charity case. In cases like his, where patients need
long-term care, hospitals are not allowed to discharge them to the streets. U.S.
regulations require them - if they receive Medicare payments, and most hospitals
do - to transfer or refer patients to ''appropriate'' care.

But in most states, the government does not finance post-hospital care for
illegal immigrants, for temporary legal immigrants or for legal residents with
less than five years in the United States.

Martin Memorial's lawyer, Robert Lord Jr., said hospitals should not be forced
to assume financial and legal responsibility for these cases. ''It should be a
governmental burden,'' he said, ''or the government should step in and otherwise
exercise its authority for deportation or whatever it wants to do.''

In Jimenez's case, the hospital's doctors determined that appropriate post-
hospital care meant traumatic brain injury rehabilitation.

Hospital discharge planners searched to no avail for a rehabilitation program or
nursing home.

Representing Jiménez's guardian, Michael Banks, a local lawyer, took the
position that the hospital had a responsibility to provide Jiménez with the
rehabilitation he needed, even if that meant paying a rehabilitation center to
provide it. That, he noted, could have benefited both the hospital and the
patient.

With the guardian and the hospital at an impasse, Martin Memorial took the
matter to court, asking a state judge to compel relatives to cooperate with its
repatriation plan.

In court, Jiménez's doctor, Walter Gil, testified that Jiménez would benefit
from returning to the intimacy of his family.

Dr. Miguel Garces, a prominent Guatemalan physician and public health advocate,
said in a deposition that serious rehabilitation was ''almost nonexistent'' in
Guatemala outside private facilities. He predicted that Jiménez would be taken
in and then released from the country's one public rehabilitation hospital
within a matter of weeks.

The judge granted the hospital's petition. Banks, the guardian, requested a
stay, but the hospital sent Jiménez back to Guatemala just hours before its
response to the stay request was due.

An appeals court later found that the Florida state judge had overstepped his
bounds because deportation is the prerogative of the U.S. government. The court
also declared that no evidence supported the hospital's assertion that Jiménez
would receive appropriate care in Guatemala; the discharge plan, the ruling
said, had not been detailed enough to satisfy federal requirements or the
hospital's own rules.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


