                              209 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday

PPCB to initiate legal proceedings against CMCH

BYLINE: Sanjeev Chopra

LENGTH: 288  words

DATELINE: Patiala


Hospital running without authorisation for disposal of biomedical waste: Board

The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has decided to initiate legal
proceedings against the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) in
Ludhiana for running the hospital and disposing its biomedical waste without
proper authorisation. The decision was taken on Wednesday during a personal
hearing granted to the hospital in this connection.

PPCB Member Secretary Babu Ram said the 577-bed hospital had been running
without the mandatory authorisation under the Bio-Medical Waste (Management and
Handling) Rules 1998 for the last over five years, ever since its permit expired
on April 8, 2005. PPCB chairman Rajat Aggarwal said their legal team was
preparing a case to be registered against the CMCH authorities because of the
"repeated negligence" on its part in complying with the norms. PPCB authorities
said the CMCH failed to apply for the authorisation even though the board
officials visited the hospital in August and issued a show-cause notice for
several violations. The officials paid another visit after that and found the
hospital to be still violating the norms prescribed under the biomedical waste
rules.

In the view of the "intentional non-compliances" by such a reputed hospital, the
board has now taken a serious view and approved initiation of legal proceedings
against it. Babu Ram said any hospital, dispensary or healthcare facility found
to be operating without valid authorisation would be proceeded against, as the
PPCB was adopting a "zero-tolerance" policy. He appealed to the medical
fraternity to be socially and morally responsible to build a healthy and greener
Punjab by complying with the biomedical waste rules.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


