                              22 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           November 2, 1991 Saturday

END OF LEGAL DISPUTE SPURS HOSPITAL PLAN

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: GALLAGHER J

LENGTH: 332 words


End of legal dispute spurs hospital plan By JOE GALLAGHER A long-running legal
dispute which has left a $250 million Gold Coast private hospital gathering dust
for more than a year was resolved this week. The almost completed Moran Clinic
Hospital of Excellence at Tugan has been empty since work stopped in October
last year after the hospital's operator, Moran Health Care Group, began legal
action targeted at its two partners in the development, the Australian Guarantee
Corporation Ltd and Japanese company, C Itoh Ltd. The legal dispute was this
week resolved in an out-of-court settlement 15 months after the first legal
action was made in August last year. Although the parties would not release
details of the settlement, they said all litigation procedures in the New South
Wales Supreme Court had been terminated. A Westpac Banking Corporation
spokesman, Mr Graham Canning, said this had opened the way for the hospital to
open its doors as soon as timetables were worked out. AGC is a wholely-owned
subsidiary of Westpac. The legal action involved the Moran Group making a
multi-million dollar claim against the developing company, Relkban Pty Ltd, of
which it was a 20% shareholder. Relkban's other shareholders were AGC and C Itoh
which each held 40%. The Moran Group, which was the original project manager,
long-term operator and 20% equity holder, will no longer have any involvement
with the project. Moran's 20% stake in Relkban has been absorbed by AGC and C
Itoh and its operating and project management project contracts have been
relinquished. The chairman of the Moran Group, Mr Doug Moran, said yesterday he
was pleased that matters had been finalised. Moran was originally making the
claim, which it said could have amounted to $60 million, because AGC and C Itoh
stopped development of the hospital only months before it was scheduled to open.
THE Moran Clinic Hospital at Tugan on the Gold Coast. Westpac says it will soon
be ready to open its doors.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIC OF THE MORAN CLINIC HOSPITAL AT TUGAN ON THE GOLD COAST

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1991 Nationwide News Pty Limited


