                              220 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       April 13, 2015 Monday 1:48 PM GMT

Midlands hospitals pay out £45 million in just 12 months for clinical
negligence;
Heart of England NHS trust hit by biggest bill for £13.9 million

BYLINE: By Alison Stacey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 830 words


CASH-strapped hospitals in the West Midlands spent £45 million in just one year
on clinical negligence claims.

The Heart of England NHS Trust, which runs Heartlands, Good Hope and Solihull
hospitals had the biggest bill in the region - £13.9 million for 2013-14.

The Trust also paid more for lawyers than any other group in England - coughing
up £1.5 million in legal fees.

Payouts include patients of surgeon Ian Paterson, who carried unlicensed and
unnecessary operations on hundreds of women at Solihull Hospital.

It is understood that one former breast cancer patient received a payout of
£270,000 alone, with at least 157 others already settled.

In another case Hayley Sanders received a five-figure sum from the Trust sum in
October 2013.

The young mum needed an urgent hysterectomy after Heartlands Hospital discharged
her with an untreated infection after the birth of her son Jayden in December
2009 - when she was just 19.

Hospital staff performed multiple internal examinations, but failed to act on
four high temperature readings following complications on December 27, 2009.

Hayley was discharged, but just two days later she was rushed back to hospital
and spent days in the high dependency unit.

She fell into a coma as her body was taken over by a bacterial infection.

Doctors were left with no choice but to perform a complete hysterectomy to save
her life.

The shocking figures, published by the NHS Litigation Authority, show the Trust
had to spend another £3.6 million paying claimants' legal costs and a further
£8.8 million paying damages in cases it lost.

The costs are slightly less than the previous year, where the bill was £14.3
million which included payouts to lawyers, claimants, and paying claimant's
legal fees.

But the Trust insisted that the figures did not reflect the quality of patient
care at its hospitals, and the huge sum was largely due to claims against 'rogue
surgeon' Ian Paterson.

Andrew Catto, deputy chief executive and executive medical director, Heart of
England NHS Foundation Trust, said: "Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust is
one of the largest Trust in the region treating over 1.2 million patients every
year.

"Whilst we regret the significant impact that the process of taking legal action
can have on patients, the majority of these litigation costs account for the
pro-active approach that the Trust has taken to compensate the NHS patients of
Mr Ian Paterson.

"This includes increased legal costs for the Trust in defending the claims
concerning private sector treatment performed by Mr Paterson.

"We continue to be committed to providing the highest standards of patient care
and are taking steps to make our care safer and thereby reduce the cost of
medical litigation."

Elsewhere in the region the Dudley Group of Hospitals trust, which runs Russells
Hall Hospital had the second largest legal bill at £5.9 million.

But the Trust insisted that the pay outs were from cases as far back as 1996.

A spokeswoman said: "The amount of compensation paid out on behalf of the Trust
in 2013/14 included settlement of some claims raised in previous years as far
back as 1996. The amount paid covers final settlements, staged payments to
claimants and interim payments to claimants (where liability has been admitted).

"The Dudley Group pays an annual premium to the NHS Litigation Authority and
they deal with claims on our behalf.

"To minimise the number of claims made against the Trust, we carry out a review
of clinical practices when a claim has been made and implement changes, if
necessary, to our practices."

The Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust has the biggest bill in England, spending
£22.4 million paying lawyers and damages for clinical negligence claims in
2013-14.

But Dia Chakravarty, Political Director at the TaxPayers' Alliance, said that
hospitals need to do more to protect money that could be going on vital
treatment.

She added: "These figures mean either that the hospitals are falling short of
the duty of care expected of them, or that they are far too quick to pay off
negligence claims, either way it's hard-pressed taxpayers who are losing out.

"The NHS needs to do better so that more of taxpayers money is spent on nurses
and cancer drugs instead of expensive legal bills."

Full list of total costs for the region:

Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust £382,167

Birmingham Children's Hospital NHS Foundation Trust £1,096,885

Birmingham Community Healthcare £49,289

Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust £2,223,160

Black Country Partnership NHS Foundation Trust £18,161

Dudley and Walsall Mental Health Partnership Trust £274,993

Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust £13,948,329

Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust £4,445,266

The Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust £5,928,183

The Royal Orthopaedic Hospital NHS Foundation Trust £2,259,266

The Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust £5,289,727

University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust £4,918,654

Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust £4,074,429

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


