                              226 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                             April 18, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Stand-in doctor cleared

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 421 words


The legal duty of doctors when they cover for each other has come into the
spotlight after a recent Durban High Court judgment dealing with medical
negligence.

In the case, Judge Johan Ploos van Amstel ruled that Dr Abdool Suliman could not
be found responsible for birth defects suffered by a baby after being deprived
of oxygen while his mother was in labour.

The judge said while there was a "serious lapse which fell short of the degree
of care and expertise that was expected of him", he had been unable to find that
had he acted as it is said he should have, the outcome would have been avoided.

The court was dealing with a case in which the parents of the baby took legal
action against Life Healthcare and the specialist who delivered him at Crompton
Hospital, in Pinetown, in July 2008.

The matter was settled out of court and the parents were awarded damages.

The judge said Suliman denied he was negligent and said any settlement was made
without this admission.

But the hospital group took Suliman to court seeking a contribution from him
towards the damages.

However Judge Ploos van Amstel dismissed the hospital's claim, saying the onus
was on the hospital group to link the doctor's negligence with the cerebral
palsy suffered by the baby.

The baby's mother was admitted to hospital at 10am.

Her own doctor was not available, but had arranged with Suliman to cover for
him.

Hospital staff called Suliman and he advised on treatment for the mother and was
given telephonic updates until around 9.20pm when he arrived at the hospital and
discovered that the baby was in distress and had to be delivered immediately.

Suliman's legal team had argued that he owed the patient no legal duty until he
arrived at the hospital.

But Judge Ploos van Amstel said Suliman had owed the patient a legal duty from
the time that he was notified of her admission.

"The question is whether this would have avoided the harm that caused the
cerebral palsy," he said.

In response to questions from The Mercury, Suliman's attorney Sivi Pather, from
Pather and Pather Attorneys, said as far as the firm was aware, this was the
first time that a medical malpractice case dealing with one doctor covering for
another had come before a court in this country.

"There is nothing in the medical legislation or ethical rules that deals with
how covering is to take place, albeit that the judge in this matter accepted
that covering is a universal practice."

Barries Barnard, manager of Crompton Hospital, said the group intended to appeal
against the judgment.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


