                              238 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                  August 10, 1997, Sunday, Correction Appended
                                  ALL EDITIONS

King & Spalding big player in hospital legal work;
Firm often serves as bond counsel

BYLINE: Peter Mantius; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 05E

LENGTH: 665 words


Representing Georgia hospital authorities is big business for King & Spalding.

Nineteen authorities across the state paid legal fees to the prestigious Atlanta
law firm in 1995 and 1996, a Floyd County grand jury reported last year. The
report said the firm billed the Floyd authority $ 565,499.

It was the law firm's business dealings with the Floyd hospital authority that
led to the pending ethics complaint against former Attorney General Mike Bowers.
Prompted by concerns about Bowers' legal positions, the grand jury checked his
campaign disclosures and found dozens of contributions from the firm. A Rome,
Ga., bookstore owner then challenged the accuracy of the disclosures.

King & Spalding also dominates the state market for providing legal advice on
hospital revenue bonds. According to The Bond Buyer, a trade publication that
reports on the bond industry, the firm has served as bond counsel for 57 Georgia
hospital bond issues with a face amount of $ 1.46 billion over the past decade.
That's more in number of issues and face amount than its three closest
competitors combined.

As bond counsel, King & Spalding tells investors that the interest due them on
hospital bonds is tax-free because the issuer is considered a nonprofit charity
by the IRS. However, the IRS can revoke the tax advantage if it finds a bond
issuer has broken agency rules for operating as a nonprofit.

Losing that status would put the bonds into technical default, said Wade Monk,
the Floyd authority's local attorney. "The interest payable would no longer be
tax free to bondholders," Monk said. "It would be just a mess. It would mean
either calling the bonds or making good on bondholder losses."

Floyd's hospital authority was running just such a risk, according to several
grand juries that probed possible improper deals at the authority.

"We as grand jurors and citizens of Floyd County do not wish to see penalties
assessed on our hospital or to see health care suffer as a result of the loss of
our hospital's tax exemption," the May 1996 term grand jury wrote.

That grand jury found that questionable physician recruitment and deals with a
for-profit medical supply company jeopardized the tax status of $ 60 million in
authority bonds, on which King & Spalding served as bond counsel.

Although IRS guidelines prohibit nonprofit entities from giving special pay,
loan and rent deals, the Floyd authority awarded one physician a $ 350,000
"goodwill" signing bonus and gave another physicians group a $ 400,000 discount
on rent, the grand jury said. And stock records show the authority bought a
medical supply company, Bio-Tech Inc., in 1990, five years after the Georgia
Supreme Court ruled a hospital authority may not own or operate a for-profit
hospital equipment business.

Four competitors of Bio-Tech told the grand jury their referrals from Floyd
County Medical Center, the authority's hospital, dried up after the authority
bought Bio-Tech.

After the IRS raised questions, the authority sold Bio-Tech in 1993 to a newly
chartered company. But the spinoff wasn't complete. The CEO of the Floyd Medical
Center, Bill Waters, headed the acquiring company, while Monk served as legal
counsel to both the buyer and seller.

Although the grand jury viewed Bio-Tech as a threat to the authority's special
tax status, Monk said the authority followed IRS recommendations on how to carry
out the deal.

Monk said he felt the grand jury's concerns about possible loss of its tax
status were overblown. "The possibility is so remote it's hardly worth talking
about, particularly because we went to the IRS," he said.

In 1995, the Floyd district attorney asked Bowers to probe Bio-Tech's complex
history. But Larry Thompson of King & Spalding wrote Bowers that heeding the
request "would only waste the already scarce time and resources on which your
office is forced to rely." Bowers said he took appropriate action. The grand
jury said he didn't go far enough.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 1997

CORRECTION: ARTICLES SUNDAY ON A STATE ETHICS COMMISSION HEARING INVOLVING MIKE
BOWERS SHOULD HAVE SAID THAT A JULY PUBLIC APPEARANCE BY BOWERS IN FLOYD COUNTY
WAS PART OF THE COUNTY REPUBLICAN PARTY'S REGULAR MONTHLY MEETING AND WAS NOT A
FUND-RAISER HOSTED BY COUNTY GOP CHAIRMAN DAVID F. GULDENSCHUH. THE ARTICLES
SHOULD ALSO HAVE SAID THAT A RADIO STATION OPERATED BY ONE MEMBER OF THE FLOYD
COUNTY HOSPITAL AUTHORITY SAW ITS MARKET SHARE - NOT ITS ADVERTISING REVENUE -
INCREASE AFTER THE MEMBER JOINED THE AUTHORITY AND THAT THE MOST RECENT ETHICS
COMMISSION HEARING OCCURRED IN JUNE. ALSO, THE AWARDING OF A KING & SPALDING
FELLOWSHIP TO BOWERS' SON AT EMORY UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL WAS DETERMINED BY THE
UNIVERSITY.

GRAPHIC:  Chart: THE BOND BUSINESS
 Between 1987-1996, King & Spalding served as bond counsel for 57 Georgia
 hospital revenue bond issues, 40 more than any other law firm.
 / Bond / Face
 Law firm / Issues / amount*
 King & Spalding / 57 / $ 1,458
 Sutherland Asbill / 17 / $ 640
 Long Aldridge / 3 / $ 403
 Thomas Kennedy / 1 / $ 336
 Oliver Maner / 13 / $ 286
 Arrington Biggins / 3 / $ 265
 Hunter MacLean / 5 / $ 247
 Powell Goldstein / 4 / $ 231
 Arrington Hollowell / 2 / $ 139
 Howell & Goins / 1 / $ 71
 Alston & Bird / 7 / $ 65
 * in millions
 Note: Fees earned by bond counsels vary widely depending on the complexity
 of each deal.
 Source: The Bond Buyer.

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


