                              254 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                    February 12, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Long States: to be a Good Social Management
Innovation of Participants and Promoters

LENGTH: 434  words


Beijing, Feb. 12 -- Longzhou County People's Court to maintain good social order
as an important management responsibilities, to explore innovative ideas,
consciously put themselves into the community of management, social management
innovation efforts to be a good participant and facilitator for the maintenance
of good order of social administration provide better judicial services, and
achieved remarkable results.



Hospital county hospital leaders often led more than a dozen key enterprises in
depth, understand the legal problems encountered in the development of
enterprises in the production and help companies ride out the storm. The new
rural construction hospital residency instructor and first secretary of villages
often irregular in depth guide poll organizations, to assist the mediation of
civil disputes, to ensure that no trivial Tun, events within the village. At the
same time, the hospital has sent vice president of business backbone of primary
and secondary legal jurisdiction to carry out regular activities to build law
school, students take the invitation to appear in court to observe the trial,
moot court, legal seminars, distributing promotional materials, etc., legal
awareness and legal awareness of minors, effectively preventing crimes in
school.

Focus on the prevention and correction of minor criminal population, in
particular the working mechanism of socialization, hospital services is another
innovation of social management features. The hospital was sentenced to
probation for, control, pardon and released from prison staff, good tracking
assistance and education, and coordination of relevant departments to help them
solve their practical difficulties. Especially for minors criminals, adhere to
the "education, persuasion, and rescue" approach, with schools, parents work
closely together to invite people's assessors, greater efforts to do a return
visit after the judgment of addicts, criminals as soon as possible to help the
rehabilitation of minors rehabilitation, social reintegration.

In addition, the hospital is also actively involved in peace building
activities, based on the trial, and public security, procuratorial, judicial
departments work closely together and actively carry out various social security
comprehensive management of special rectification activities to help the county
government to properly handle group disputes, good outside the mediation
proceedings, to the township villages to carry out legal advocacy and legal
advisory services, held annually pronouncement 2-3 times in order to improve
people's concept of the rule of law.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


