                              260 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                           December 23, 2008 Tuesday

Pill increasingly used to perform legal abortions

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 366 words


Although 98 percent of the women who requested permission for a legal abortion
were granted it, the abortion rates among females younger than 20 and over 35
are lower in Israel than in most European countries.

However, a new Health Ministry report on legal abortion statistics, released for
publication Tuesday, does not relate to illegal abortions, which experts
estimate are about as frequent as legal ones.

Legal abortions are performed in most of the public and private hospitals, and
an increasing number are not surgical; rather, the young fetus is expelled from
the uterus with the mifepristone "abortion pill" (known commercially as
Mifegyne).

Of the 19,544 legal abortions done in 2007, nearly 5,000 were carried out with
the pill, which requires strict doctors' supervision and follow-up and is seen
as causing fewer complications than a surgical abortion. The percentage of
abortions via Mifegyne has doubled since 2000.

The use of Mifegyne to abort was much more common at the two Hadassah University
Medical Centers in Jerusalem (72%) than in Clalit Health Services hospitals
(53%), government hospitals (50%) and private hospitals (30%).

Although 20,919 requested permission for an abortion and 20,505 were approved,
only 19,544 women actually aborted their fetuses. The approval rate of 98% has
remained steady since 1995, when it was 93%; in 1990, it was only 89%.

Public abortion committees have been operating in the hospitals since 1977, when
the Abortion Law was passed. They are comprised of gynecologists, social
workers, clergymen and others.

Legal abortion is allowed in cases of illegal sexual relations according to the
criminal law, such as incest or sex outside marriage; when continuing the
pregnancy is liable to endanger the woman's life or cause her physical or
psychological harm; when the fetus is liable to suffer from a physical or mental
defect; and when the woman is under the legal age of marriage (17) or is 40 or
older.

More than half (55%) of the requests for an abortion were due to illicit sexual
relations; 18% due to potential danger to the woman's physical or mental state;
18% due to defects in the fetus; and 9% due to the mother's being underage or
overage.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


