                              263 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright (c) 2010 by the State Bar of Arizona
                                Arizona Attorney

                                  March, 2010

                                Arizona Attorney

                                46 AZ Attorney 6

LENGTH: 536 words

FRONT: PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE: CALLING LEADERS TO SERVICE

by Raymond A. Hanna

TEXT:


 [*6]  When I was elected to the State Bar of Arizona's Board of Governors in
2000, I was cycling off as a Representative to the Mexico City Shriners
Hospital. Mexico City has the busiest of the 19 Shriners Orthopedic Hospitals.
All newly initiated Shriners are asked to visit a hospital within one year of
initiation.

   The mission of the Shriners Hospitals is to provide the highest quality care
to children with orthopedic and burn injuries without cost to the patient or
family. Hospital representatives are required to cover their own travel and
lodging expenses and to contribute in a meaningful way to the hospital's
mission. I was on the facilities committee, which was charged with helping
maintain a very old building before the newer state-of-the-art hospital was
build near the football stadium. That old Mexico City hospital was in a historic
district close to Leon Trotsky's compound and Frida Kahlo's little blue house.

   Members of the State Bar of Arizona commit to support legal services for the
defenseless and oppressed when they take the oath of admission to the Bar, After
joining the Board of Governors, I quickly became a Fellow of the Arizona Bar
Foundation (now called the Arizona Foundation for Legal Services & Education) to
help fulfill my commitment to providing access to justice to Arizona's most
needy. Then and now, lawyers I respect and admire made the same commitment to
legal services and education.

   Members of the State Bar of Arizona have a golden opportunity to renew their
commitments by becoming a member of the "Next Generation of Fellows." For a
contribution of $ 1,000 (which can be pledged as $ 200 per year for five years),
Arizona lawyers may, for a five-year period, be a member of that next
generation, joining the legacy of Arizona's Founding Fellows. This is a
substantial but realistic contribution, based on the average lawyer's income.

   Programs administered though through the Foundation include:

     - Lawforkids.org
     - Kids Voting Arizona
     - Lawforseniors.org
     - Azlawhelp.org
     - Modest Means & Legal Learn Contact Center
     - Mock Trial
     - Arizona Teen Court
     - We the People
     - Project Citizen
     - Law Related Academy
     - CSI Arizona
     - Legal Service Project for DV Survivors
     - Bankruptcy Hotline
     - Arizona Civic Coalition

   Programs partially funded by the Foundation also include:

     - Community Legal Services
     - DNA--People's Legal Services
     - Southern Arizona Legal Aid
     - Florence Immigration Project
     - The Never Again Foundation
     - Chrysalis Shelter
     - Defenders for Children
     - Medical Legal Partnerships
     - William E. Morris Institute for Justice

   It is hard not to appreciate the value of these programs for the children and
residents of the State of Arizona. More important, becoming a part of the
Arizona Foundation for Legal Services & Education will fulfill your commitment
to access to justice, will make you feel better, and will speak loudly of your
commitment to serving Arizona's most needy.

   Please visit the Foundation's Web site (www.azflse.org) and consider joining
their mission in 2010. Becoming a member of the Next Generation of Arizona
Fellows will enrich your life now and in the future.

   The Future is Now!

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsLocal GovernmentsAdministrative BoardsImmigration
LawAdmissionVisasMedical Examinations


