                              276 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The New Nation (Bangladesh)

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

Salahuddin shifted to another hospital

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: Dhaka


Dhaka, May 21 -- BNP leader Salahuddin Ahmed has been shifted to another
hospital for better treatment.Cardiologist Dr GK Goswami, who had been attending
Salahuddin at Shillong Civil Hospital, said that the BNP leader was shifted to
North East Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences
[NEIGRIHMS] hospital on Wednesday. "A stone has been found in his kidney and it
requires more medical examinations facilities which are not available in the
civil hospital. The medical board formed for Salahuddin's treatment has
recommended his shifting to NEIGRIHMS hospital," he said.

Official sources said, the BNP leader was admitted to the NEIGRIHMS hospital
around 5:30pm [BD Local Time].Hasina Ahmed, wife of the BNP leader, met him at
the hospital for the third consecutive day yesterday. Reiterating her desire to
take Salahuddin to Singapore for better treatment, she said that they are giving
priority to his treatment before dealing with the legal procedures.Salahuddin
while coming out of the Shillong Civil Hospital said, "I like to thank Indian
government and Shillong authorities for arranging my better treatment..I urge my
countrymen to pray for my early recovery." The authorities of Shillong Civil
Hospital earlier on Tuesday handed over the medical reports of Salahuddin to the
police.Joint Director of Shillong Civil Hospital Dr Razen in his report said
that Salahuddin had been suffering from heart and kidney diseases, and also
developed fresh urological symptoms.Meanwhile, the legal procedures for
Salauddin's return are now hanging as he could not be produced before the court
for not getting final report from the doctors. His family is also suffering from
indecision about the legal proceedings.However, sources said senior advocate of
High Court of Meghalaya SP Mahanta would take up the case in the court when
Salahuddin is produced. Salahuddin's wife yesterday met SP Mahanta at his
residence to discuss the legal matter.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The New Nation. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The New Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


