                              319 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                              p - SA First Edition

Ex-patient sues surgeon accused of bungled operations

BYLINE: Milanda Rout

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 461 words


A PAST patient of Thomas Kossman, the former head of The Alfred hospital's
trauma unit, is suing the Melbourne doctor for damages over allegedly botched
shoulder surgery.

Joseph Bemelmans has launched legal action against Professor Kossmann in the
Victorian County Court in what is believed to be the first medical negligence
case filed against the surgeon.

The writ emerged a day after law firm Slater and Gordon flagged future legal
claims of negligence against the German-born surgeon and The Alfred hospital by
other former patients.

Professor Kossmann resigned from his position as head of trauma surgery at
Melbourne's Alfred hospital in April after a damning peer review found he had
conducted risky surgery and had exaggerated his experience on his resume.

The three-month investigation, led by orthopedic surgeon Bob Dickens, also found
Professor Kossmann invoiced Victoria's Transport Accident Commission, the
WorkCover Authority and Medicare Australia for operations he did not perform and
surgery that was unnecessary. It also alleged he had put lives at risk with
bungled surgery that involved grave errors in more than half of the 24 cases
that were examined.

Documents lodged with the County Court this week and obtained by The Australian
reveal Mr Bemelmans is suing Professor Kossmann, the operators of The Alfred
hospital, Bayside Health, Epworth Hospital as well as another surgeon, and two
other hospitals for medical negligence.

The statement of claim reveals Mr Bemelmans fell 8m from a ladder on to
``concrete below'' on July 11, 2005, and was taken to The Alfred for treatment,
where he immediately had surgery on his right shoulder. He underwent further
operations -- ``a revision of right shoulder surgery'' -- performed by Professor
Kossmann on August 9, 2005.

Mr Bemelmans alleges in his writ that Professor Kossmann did more operations on
his shoulder between January 12 and March 16, 2006, at the Epworth Hospital.

He then endured further operations conducted by another surgeon at the Masada
Private Hospital and the St Francis Cabrini Hospital on July 5, 2006, and
January 25, 2007.

Mr Bemelmans claims both the surgeons and hospitals ``failed to provide
appropriate treatment and care'' and the failure to do this resulted in their
negligence.

Mr Bemelmans's lawyer Sharon McRae said the legal action was still in the
``preliminary stages'' and that they had not yet served the writ on Professor
Kossmann or the other five parties named in it. ``We have 12 months to serve the
proceeding (on the other parties),'' she said.

Professor Kossmann has denied any wrongdoing and has blamed complaints from
doctors about his surgery on competitive jealousy. A spokeswoman last night said
Professor Kossmann was unaware of any legal action against him.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


