                              393 of 993 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2015 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                            GlobalData - Investments

                               December 18, 2015

                         The Children's Mercy Hospital

                               2401 Gillham Road
                               Kansas City 64108
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * INVESTMENTS * * * * * * * * * *


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2019 For US$1.15 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2019, for gross proceeds of
$1.15 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2019.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2019 For US$1.83 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2019, for gross proceeds of
$1.83 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 4.625% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2019.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2018 For US$2.88 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2018, for gross proceeds of
$2.88 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 4.625% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2018.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2017 For US$2.74 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2017, for gross proceeds of
$2.74 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2017.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2016 For US$2.64 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2016, for gross proceeds of
$2.64 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 4% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2016.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2015 For US$2.52 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2015, for gross proceeds of
$2.52 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2015.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2014 For US$2.44 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2014, for gross proceeds of
$2.44 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 3.5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2014.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2013 For US$2.38 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2013, for gross proceeds of
$2.38 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 3% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2013.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2012 For US$2.3 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2012, for gross proceeds of $2.3
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 3% payable on May 15 and November 15
every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part of $181.49
million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri Health
Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2012.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2011 For US$2.27 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2011, for gross proceeds of
$2.27 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 2% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2011.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Term Bonds
Due 2039 For US$83 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 term bonds due 2039, for gross proceeds of $83.49
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5.625% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2039.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Term Bonds
Due 2033 For US$24 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 term bonds due 2033, for gross proceeds of $23.61
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5.5% payable on May 15 and November
15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part of
$181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri Health
Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2033.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Term Bonds
Due 2029 For US$32 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 term bonds due 2029, for gross proceeds of $31.76
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5.25% payable on May 15 and November
15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part of
$181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri Health
Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2029.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2024 For US$6.18 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2024, for gross proceeds of
$6.18 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5.125% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2024.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2023 For US$3.57 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2023, for gross proceeds of
$3.57 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2023.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2022 For US$3.4 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2022, for gross proceeds of $3.4
million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and November 15
every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part of $181.49
million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri Health
Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2022.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2021 For US$3.26 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2021, for gross proceeds of
$3.26 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 4.75% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2021.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.


Children's Mercy Hospital Completes Public Offering Of Series 2009 Serial Bonds
Due 2020 For US$3.11 Million

   11/5/2009 12:00:00 AM

   The Children's Mercy Hospital, a provider of healthcare services, completed
public offering of series 2009 serial bonds due 2020, for gross proceeds of
$3.11 million. The bonds bear an interest rate of 5% payable on May 15 and
November 15 every year, commencing May 15, 2010. The bonds are issued as a part
of $181.49 million Health And Education Authority of The State of Missouri
Health Facilities revenue bonds and will mature on May15, 2020.

Piper Jaffray & Co., Loop Capital Markets, LLC and UMB Bank Colorado, N.A. acted
as underwriters. Kaufman, Hall & Associates, Inc. acted as finacial advisor and
Lathrop & Gage LLP acted as legal advisors for the offering.

Children's Mercy Hospital intends to use the proceeds from the offering to fund
its projects and to repay debt.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Company Investment Analysis             Company Overview
Events                                  Investments
Key Employees                           Key Facts
Locations and Subsidiaries              Major Products and Services
Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015


