                              401 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Kuwait:Al Sayer orders investigation into illegal use of medical devices

LENGTH: 375  words

DATELINE: KUWAIT


KUWAIT, Nov. 12 -- Minister of Health Dr. Hilal Al Sayer has reportedly ordered
an investigation in regards to the illegal use of five expensive devices by a
consultant in one of the leading hospitals in the country.A leading public
hospital has discovered that the five devices, which were imported for only
Kuwaiti patients, went missing. However, facts were recently revealed when a
consultant aid stated that he inserted the devices within the bodies of Kuwaiti
patients in a private hospital.A source confirmed that a senior official has
opened an investigation on the number of devices used by doctors and who
received them from the stores and who ordered the use of these devices. The
source has stated that the senior official have opened the investigation because
a head of a department reported the incident to the Director of the Health Zone
instead of reporting it to his line manager, who happened to be the same senior
official.The source said that the consultant has been illegally using the
devices for three months, therefore the legal department considered this case as
an abuse of the public funds, because he received the devices form the public
hospitals and inserted them into the bodies of patients in a private hospital.

The legal department considered such an act as a serious violation, which could
result in the deterioration of the health of other patients who desperately need
such devices.The source said that the senior official threatened the consultants
with a report of their violations to Minister Al Sayer if they continued
providing the ministry''s legal department with details about the case. He added
that the senior officials wanted to protect the consultant.The source added that
Al Sayer has formed an investigation committee including Director of Health
Zone, Director of the hospital and the Head of Legal Department to be under his
direct supervision. The minister asked the members of the committee to end the
investigation as soon as possible and hold the violator accountable before the
details of the case are leaked to the lawmakers. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


