                              412 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       May 21, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Justice for the People to Strengthen the Party's
Mass Line Services Practice

LENGTH: 710  words


May 21 -- Recently, Jinxiu Yao Autonomous County conduct prevention activities
to combat illegal fund-raising Awareness Month, Jinxiu Yao Autonomous County
People's Court judges and county government, public security bureau,
procuratorate and many other units jointly launched \ "to prevent and combat
illegal fund-raising \" special campaign . Paulownia town judges to the area,
the first row of the town and the county Cultural Square, the establishment of
legal advice at the point in the mobility-intensive to distributing promotional
materials, on-site to explain, in the form of case statement to the public
popularity of fund-raising fraud prevention knowledge to make the masses fully
Recognizing the dangers of illegal fund-raising, the initiative away from the
illegal fund-raising, consciously resist the illegal fund-raising.



Grassroots, communities, prevention of illegal fund-raising propaganda campaign
against the hospital only to strengthen the judiciary to serve the people,
practice a microcosm of the Party's mass line. In recent years, Kim Soo courts
uphold justice for the people, impartial administration of justice, based on the
trial function and continue to broaden the judicial service channels, innovative
service approach to the rich ethnic characteristics of the judicial district
serving the public brand, in-depth practice of the party's mass line educational
practice do a good job, "three committed", and achieved good social effects.

Dedicated to serving the overall situation, the service of the people

Hospital leadership to lead the hospital police officers to firmly establish the
overall awareness, commitment to serving the overall situation, a profound
understanding of the Party's line, principles and policies and major decisions
and plans, since education practice activities, the hospital pay more attention
to strengthening software and hardware construction. Software, and constantly
improve the institutional mechanisms to pipe people to pipe the hospital. This
year, to strengthen and improve the public funds, records management, office
research and other 16 systems and regulations. Hardware, sent through the courts
and tribunals for the masses to provide standardized construction demands more
convenient environment, such as the autonomous region's civil division naming
rights of women and children Kong, was formally established in the first row of
Laibin people's courts and legal education youth base .

Committed to judicial activism, to resolve social conflicts

The hospital is committed to judicial activism, from efforts to resolve social
contradictions, in Yao create a joint exploration area with Yao old (population
respected person) the use of "stone of the law" dispute mediation Yao people new
ways, in recent years, hospital civil and commercial cases and withdrawal rates
above 80%. At the same time, through the opening in the convenience of filing an
appointment, carry out the "Circuit Court" on trial, "the court midday," "Night
Court" in the implementation of the Housing Construction Bureau, the IRS set up
information-sharing platform, the use of multi-faceted , the whole point of the
system of justice, to protect people's rights, safeguard social stability.

Committed to advocacy guide, extend judicial services

The hospital is committed to advocacy guide, through various forms of legal
advocacy work to extend the service of justice for the people, promote the
socialist concept of rule of law, reflecting the practice of socialist rule,
court officers to show "fair administration of justice, one people," the
judgment and mental performance style. The hospital long-standing legal services
into the organs, enterprises, into the community, into the countryside, into the
campus, sent legal feast for the masses. According to incomplete statistics,
since 2011, the hospital to carry out promotional activities related to the
legal system more than 50 times. In addition, the hospital also by inviting
schoolchildren, institutions public officials, migrant workers, soldiers
stationed visit local courts, to observe the trial, the Court of cultural
understanding, dispel the impression that the Court of mystification, and
establish a transparent, good for the people of Justice image.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


