                              435 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 1, 2003, Saturday

Scotland

SECTION: Features; The Hospital Consultants Guide 16

LENGTH: 3115 words


Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

GEORGE PATRICK ASHCROFT (1981)

Special interest: Joint replacement

Other NHS: Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen

JAMES PETER BIDWELL (1989)

Specialist area: Arthroscopic knee surgery; Joint replacement and revision;
Trauma surgery; General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Knee ligament reconstruction; Hip and knee replacement and
revision surgery; Knee sports injuries; Medico-legal work

Other NHS: Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen; Kincardine Community Hospital, Stonehaven

Private: BMI Albyn Hospital, Aberdeen

ROBERT ANDREW DUTHIE (1989)

Special interest: Joint revision surgery; Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen

JAMES DOUGLAS HUTCHISON (1979)

Merit award: A 2002

ALAN JOHN JOHNSTONE (1986)

Other NHS: Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen

Ayr Hospital

DAVID FRANKLIN LARGE (1978)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Hip replacement and revision
surgery; Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

Private: Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

ANDREW GORDON MUIRHEAD (1977)

HAMISH ELDER POTTS (1976)

PETER SCOTT RAE (1972)

Special interest: Knee surgery; Hand surgery

Private: Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

KENNETH ANDREW YOUNG (1990)

Specialist area: Lower limb surgery; Hip replacement and revision surgery;
Arthroscopic surgery; Foot and ankle surgery

Special interest: Joint replacement and revision surgery

Private: Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr; BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Borders General Hospital, Melrose

CHARLES BRIAN CLOWES (1969)

Special interest: Hip replacement; Knee replacement

WILLIAM GEORGE DENNYSON (1966)

JOHN EDWARD PHILLIPS (1973)

CHRISTOPHER HENRICUS TIEMESSEN (1983)

Special interest: Arthroscopic surgery; Joint replacement

Crosshouse Hospital, Kilmarnock

BRIAN FITZGERALD (1969)

Special interest: Knee surgery; Hip and knee revision surgery; Joint revision
surgery

Private: Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr; BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow;
Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

MICHAEL PATRICK FOXWORTHY (1986)

IAIN MACKAY (1971)

CALUM MACLEOD BAIRD MACLEOD (1988)

RACHEL MARIAN SHORT (1986)

GAVIN ROBERT TAIT (1980)

Specialist area: Shoulder surgery; Knee surgery; Medico-legal work

Special interest: Arthroscopic surgery; Knee replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

Dr Gray's Hospital, Elgin

DAVID JOHN SCOTT ANDERSON (1979)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Arthroscopic knee surgery; Joint
replacement; Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

JOHANNIS GERARD KILIAN (1988)

MARTHINUS FREDERIK ROOS (1978)

Dumfries and Galloway Royal Infirmary, Dumfries

PATRICIA STEPHANIE COSTIGAN (1981)

Specialist area: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

RUPERT DAVID FERDINAND (1991)

IAN PAUL MCLEAN (1987)

Specialist area: Lower limb surgery; Trauma surgery

Special interest: Hip and knee replacement

Other NHS: Garrick Hospital, Stranraer

GAVIN ANTHONY NIMON (1990)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Upper limb surgery; Hand surgery; Sports injuries

Other NHS: Newton Stewart Hospital

Private: Abbey Caldew Hospital, Carlisle; Abbey Carrick Glen Hospital, Ayr

ANDREW CHESTER OGDEN (1969)

Other NHS: Castle Douglas Hospital

ANDREWS SATKUNAM RATNAM (1975)

Special interest: Trauma surgery; Arthroscopic knee surgery; Foot and ankle
surgery

Other NHS: Newton Stewart Hospital

Falkirk & District Royal Infirmary, Falkirk

JOHN MARIUS DE LEEUW (1985)

Specialist area: Joint replacement and revision; Arthroscopic knee surgery; Foot
and ankle surgery; Trauma surgery

Special interest: Hip and knee replacement and revision surgery; Arthroscopic
surgery; Medico-legal work

Other NHS: Stirling Royal Infirmary

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling; BUPA Murrayfield Hospital
Edinburgh

FRANS DENOLF (1977)

Special interest: Knee surgery; Hip surgery

JAMES RICHARD LINDSAY (1972)

Specialist area: Hand surgery; Upper limb surgery; Medico-legal work

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

JOHN BENEDICT MURRAY (1993)

Glasgow Royal Infirmary

MARK JOHN GRAHAM BLYTH (1990)

ROLAND RALPH INGRAM (1981)

Specialist area: Hip replacement; Knee replacement; Hip revision surgery

IAN GEORGE KELLY (1972)

Specialist area: Shoulder surgery

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow, Glasgow

Merit award: A 2001

ANDREW WILLIAM GEORGE KINNINMONTH (1977)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Lower limb surgery

Other NHS: Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow

LECH ADAM RYMASZEWSKI (1976)

Special interest: Elbow surgery

Other NHS: Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow

Merit award: B 2001

CHINNASAMY SENTHILKUMAR (1986)

ROBERT GAVIN SIMPSON (1967)

IAN GEORGE STOTHER (1970)

Specialist area: Knee surgery

Private: Nuffield Hospital Harrogate

Merit award: A 1998

EUGENE FREDERICK WHEELWRIGHT (1980)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery

Special interest: Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

Hairmyres Hospital, Glasgow

ALBERTO CARLO PAUL GREGORI (1982)

Specialist area: Knee replacement; Trauma surgery; Medico-legal work

Special interest: Knee surgery

PARAPPALLICHIRAYIL JOSEPH JOHN (1972)

Special interest: Hand surgery; Upper limb surgery; Arthroscopic surgery; Joint
replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; HCI International Medical Centre,
Clydebank; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

WALTER DICK NEWTON (1970)

Inverclyde Royal Hospital, Greenock

STEVEN JOHN BARNES (1983)

Specialist area: Hand and wrist surgery; Elbow surgery; Shoulder surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

ANDREW MARTIN CHAPPELL (1989)

MICHAEL PASQUALE DI PAOLA (1971)

Specialist area: Lumbar spine surgery

Special interest: Lumbar spine disorders; Hip and knee replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

GERALD MCGARRITY (1969)

Specialist area: Major joint replacement; Medico-legal work

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

ROBERT MARTIN VENNER (1968)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Monklands Hospital, Airdrie

DIANE BRAMLEY (1986)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

ALEXANDER CRAIG WILLEM CAMPBELL (1985)

IAN MCLEOD (1987)

BIKRAM JIT SINGH (1984)

Special interest: Joint replacement; Sports injuries

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; HCI International Medical Centre,
Clydebank; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

Ninewells Hospital, Dundee

BENEDICT ANTHONY CLIFT (1986)

Special interest: Joint revision surgery; Trauma surgery; Bone and joint
infection

JOHN ANTHONY DENT (1977)

GRAEME CRAIGIE FOUBISTER (1980)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery; Arthroscopic knee surgery; Major joint
replacement

AMAR SINGH JAIN (1971)

MANHAL GEORGES NASSIF (1985)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Trauma surgery

Special interest: Joint replacement and revision surgery; Arthroscopic surgery;
Foot and ankle surgery

Other NHS: Stracathro Hospital, Brechin

Private: BMI Fernbrae Hospital, Dundee

DAVID IAN ROWLEY (1976)

Specialist area: Hip and knee surgery; Foot and ankle surgery; Medico-legal work

MADAN MOHAN SHARMA (1968)

CARLOS ALBERTO WIGDEROWITZ (1983)

Perth Royal Infirmary

ARTHUR JAMES ESPLEY (1968)

Special interest: Hip and knee replacement

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling; BMI Fernbrae Hospital, Dundee

WILLIAM ALEXANDER HADDEN (1972)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Hip and knee surgery; Arthroscopic surgery; Joint replacement
and revision surgery; Medico-legal work

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh; BMI Fernbrae Hospital, Dundee

JAMES GORDON BRUCE MACLEAN (1981)

Specialist area: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery; General orthopaedic surgery;
Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Ninewells Hospital, Dundee

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

GORDON GEORGE MCLEOD (1980)

Special interest: Joint replacement; Shoulder surgery

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

BRIAN ROBERT SINGER (1983)

Specialist area: Joint replacement and revision; Young hip disease; Hip and knee
surgery; Lower limb surgery

Special interest: Lower limb joint replacement; Medico-legal work

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

Queen Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline

IVAN JACOB BRENKEL (1980)

Specialist area: Shoulder surgery; Knee replacement and revision surgery

Special interest: Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

THOMAS IAN SPOWART BROWN (1968)

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

TIMOTHY WILLIAM DOUGALL (1987)

Specialist area: Joint replacement and revision; Trauma surgery; Limb
reconstruction; Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Hip replacement revision; Ilizarov treatment; Limb
reconstruction

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

ROBERT CORNELIUS MARKS (1977)

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

JANE ELISABETH MCEACHEN (1988)

IAN GEORGE CAMERON WEIR (1979)

Other NHS: Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

Raigmore Hospital, Inverness

KEVIN SCOTT BAIRD (1984)

Specialist area: Major joint replacement; Upper limb surgery; Trauma surgery;
General orthopaedic surgery

Special interest: Shoulder and elbow surgery; Hip and knee replacement; Medico-
legal work

Other NHS: Belford Hospital, Fort William; Caithness General Hospital, Wick

ALISTAIR FRASER CAMPBELL (1968)

QUENTIN GEORGE NELSON COX (1981)

SEAN MARTIN KELLY (1988)

Specialist area: Major joint replacement; Arthroscopic surgery; Lumbar spine
surgery; Trauma surgery

Special interest: Medico-legal work

Other NHS: Belford Hospital, Fort William; Caithness General Hospital, Wick

DOUGLAS WILLIAM SOMERVILLE (1951)

Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley

PAUL ALEXANDER ALLCOCK (1991)

Specialist area: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery; Trauma surgery; Pelvic and
acetabular surgery

Special interest: Medical education; Ilizarov method

GEOFFREY GILLIES AVISON (1985)

IAN JAMES CARTLIDGE (1972)

Special interest: Arthroscopic surgery; Lower limb joint replacement

Other NHS: Vale of Leven District General Hospital, Alexandria; Lorn and Islands
District General Hospital, Oban

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

SANJEEV LAKSHMAN CHITNIS (1978)

Specialist area: Hand surgery; Knee surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

SIMON DUNCAN SMITH (1985)

Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh

STEFFEN BREUSCH (1993)

JAMES CHRISTIE (1965)

Specialist area: Trauma

Special interest: Injuries

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

Merit award: A 1995

CHARLES MICHAEL COURT-BROWN (1985)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery

Special interest: Fracture treatment

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

Merit award: B 1998

JOHN NICOLAS ALASTAIR GIBSON (1978)

Specialist area: Lumbar spine surgery; Cervical spine surgery; Foot surgery;
Trauma surgery

Special interest: Foot and ankle surgery

Other NHS: St John's Hospital at Howden, Livingston

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

COLIN ROBERT HOWIE (1977)

Specialist area: Joint replacement and revision; Rheumatoid surgery; Hip
replacement; Knee replacement and revision surgery

Special interest: Arthritis surgery; Lower limb joint replacement; Lower limb
revision surgery; Upper limb arthroplasty revision surgery

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

JOHN FRANCIS KEATING (1983)

Specialist area: Knee surgery;

Sports medicine

Special interest: Knee ligament reconstruction; Sports injuries

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

GARY FITZGERALD KEENAN (1988)

GRAHAM MARK LAWSON (1986)

Specialist area: Ankle surgery; Hip and knee surgery

Special interest: Knee ligament reconstruction; Meniscal repair;

Sports injuries

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

RODERICK JOHN MACPHERSON MACDONALD (1971)

Special interest: Foot and ankle surgery; Knee anthroscopic surgery

Other NHS: St John's Hospital at Howden, Livingston

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

JULIE MARY MCBIRNIE (1988)

Specialist area: Knee surgery; Shoulder surgery

Special interest: Shoulder arthroscopy and reconstruction; Knee arthroscopy;
Soft tissue reconstruction

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

MICHAEL JOHN MCMASTER (1964)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery

Special interest: Scoliosis;

Lower back pain

Merit award: A 1992

MARGARET MURRAY MCQUEEN (1977)

Merit award: B 2002

RICHARD WILLIAM NUTTON (1975)

Specialist area: Knee surgery; Shoulder surgery; Joint replacement and revision;
Arthroscopic surgery

Special interest: Hip and knee replacement and revision surgery

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

CHRISTOPHER WILLIAM OLIVER (1985)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery; Hand and wrist surgery; Reconstructive surgery;
Arthroscopic surgery

Special interest: Medico-legal work

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

JAMES T. PATTON (1991)

DANIEL EDWARD PORTER (1989)

Specialist area: Tumour surgery;

Hip and knee surgery; Paediatric trauma; Skeletal dysplasia

CRISTOPHER MICHAEL ROBINSON (1985)

ALASTAIR HAMISH ROBERT WALLACE SIMPSON (1981)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery; Paediatric orthopaedic surgery; Reconstructive
surgery; Limb reconstruction

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

Southern General Hospital, Glasgow

DAVID BIRNIE ALLAN (1975)

Special interest: Joint replacement; Spinal cord injury

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Merit award: B 2001

MARC ADRIAN PETER BRANSBY-ZACHARY (1979)

Specialist area: Upper limb surgery; Hand and wrist surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

MICHAEL GARETH HULLIN (1979)

Specialist area: Knee surgery; Foot surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

DAVID ALEXANDER SHERLOCK (1977)

Specialist area: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

COLIN ROBERT CONNELL WALKER (1987)

Specialist area: Soft tissue knee injury; Lower joint replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

St John4s Hospital at Howden, Livingston

RICHARD BURNETT (1983)

Specialist area: Joint replacement

Special interest: Complex primary joint replacement; Joint revision surgery

Private: BUPA Murrayfield Hospital Edinburgh

Stirling Royal Infirmary

RAYMOND DAVID BRIGGS (1973)

Specialist area: Lower limb surgery

Special interest: Arthritis and deformity; Trauma surgery

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

GORDON MATHESON MACKAY (1987)

IAN KRISTENSEN RITCHIE (1977)

Specialist area: Trauma surgery; Joint replacement; Arthroscopic surgery; Upper
limb surgery

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

DAVID JOHN ROSS (1973)

Special interest: Hand surgery

Private: Abbey Kings Park Hospital, Stirling

Stracathro Hospital, Brechin

JAMES RICHARD BUCKLEY (1977)

PETER KENNETH RICKHUSS (1985)

JAMES EDWIN SCULLION (1969)

NEIL WILSON VALENTINE (1980)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery

Special interest: Back pain

Other NHS: Ninewells Hospital, Dundee

Private: BMI Fernbrae Hospital, Dundee; BMI Albyn Hospital, Aberdeen

Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy

RICHARD ANTHONY BUXTON (1969)

Special interest: Paediatric orthopaedic surgery

Other NHS: Queen Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline

Victoria Infirmary, Glasgow

CLARK ROBERTSON DREGHORN (1977)

Specialist area: Shoulder surgery

Special interest: Arthroscopic shoulder surgery; Shoulder joint replacement

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

ERIC RICHARDSON GARDNER (1981)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

TIMOTHY EDMUND JOHN HEMS (1985)

Specialist area: Hand surgery

Special interest: Peripheral nerve surgery; Brachial plexus surgery; Upper limb
paralysis and surgical reconstruction

Other NHS: Southern General Hospital, Glasgow

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; HCI International Medical Centre,
Clydebank

COLIN CAMPBELL MAINDS (1979)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

ANDREW DAVID SHAW (1988)

Western Infirmary, Glasgow

PETROS CHATZIGRIGORIS (1982)

JAMES FRANCIS CROSSAN (1970)

Specialist area: Hand and wrist surgery; Elbow surgery; Shoulder surgery;
Medico-legal work

UMBERTO GIUSEPPE FAZZI (1985)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

ALISTAIR JOHN RUSSELL GRAY (1982)

Specialist area: Hip replacement; Knee replacement; Hip/Knee anthroplasty

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

MICHAEL JOHN JANE (1982)

MICHAEL PATRICK KELLY (1986)

WILLIAM JOSEPH LEACH (1985)

Specialist area: Knee surgery; Sports injuries

Other NHS: Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow; BMI Ross Hall Hospital

JOHN STUART MOIR (1980)

Specialist area: Foot surgery; Ankle surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow; Nuffield Hospital Glasgow

ANTHONY THOMAS CHRISTOPHER REECE (1983)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery; Trauma surgery

Other NHS: Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow

Private: Nuffield Hospital Glasgow; BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Western Isles Hospital, Stornoway

MANJUNATH PAI (1974)

Wishaw General Hospital

HEDLEY JOHN EASTER (1975)

STEFAN EHRENDORFER (1985)

Special interest: Upper limb surgery

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

MAHER MOHAMED EL ENAM EL HADIDI (1972)

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MACSWEEN (1968)

Private: BMI Ross Hall Hospital, Glasgow

Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen

PETER HUGH GIBSON (1971)

Other NHS: Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

DAVID JAMES KNIGHT (1978)

Other NHS: Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

WILLIAM MURRAY LEDINGHAM (1980)

Specialist area: General orthopaedic surgery; Rheumatoid surgery; Arthroscopic
surgery; Joint replacement and revision

Special interest: Knee surgery; Hip surgery; Foot and ankle surgery;
Arthroscopic surgery

Other NHS: Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

Private: BMI Albyn Hospital, Aberdeen

JAMES MCLAUCHLAN (1961)

THOMAS ROBERT SCOTLAND (1971)

DOUGLAS WARDLAW (1969)

Specialist area: Spinal surgery

Other NHS: Aberdeen Royal Infirmary

Private: BMI Albyn Hospital, Aberdeen

Merit award: B 1997


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited


