                              450 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New Laws Don't Cut Hospitals' Legal Bills

BYLINE: CAROL GENTRY, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words


MALPRACTICE CLAIMS ARE DOWN

By CAROL GENTRY

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - The number of claims against hospitals in Florida and two other states
has fallen substantially since changes in malpractice laws in 2003, according to
a new study.

However, hospital legal costs have gone up significantly at the same time. As a
result, hospitals' cost related to negligence claims is still rising.

"Patient-safety initiatives being implemented today will be critical" if
hospitals are to lower costs, said the study by Aon Risk Consultants, a Chicago
company that advises employers on control of benefit costs.

Florida's cost per hospital bed for claims payouts and legal defense was $6,200
last year and should reach $7,000 next year, according to the study. That is
well above the national average of $4,800.

"Florida is the highest-cost state that we review," said study author Greg
Larcher, a director and actuary for Aon in Maryland. The database for the study
includes data from 45 states.

The study said about 21 percent of hospitals' expense connected to claims this
year will go toward legal fees - the cost to investigate and negotiate
settlements, even though cases rarely end up in court. That's up from 17 percent
in 2002.

Aon did not include the cost of insurance in its calculations, limiting them to
legal defense and payouts. That removes one of the major complications in
tracking malpractice costs - profit for the insurance industry.

Aon conducted the study, which covers 48,000 claims from 1998 through 2005, with
the American Society for Healthcare Risk Management, an offshoot of the American
Hospital Association. Its key findings include:

o The frequency of claims nationwide for hospitals has held steady the past two
years and has gone down for physicians. Losses reported to the National
Practitioner Data Bank went down for a doctor who is not in a high-risk
specialty from an average of $11,620 in 1998 to $9,170 last year.

o The average loss on claims increases at an annual rate of 6 percent.

o Frequency, severity and losses from complaints vary significantly by state,
with Florida at the high end of the scale and Minnesota at the low end.

Florida led the pack in substantial claims during the years studied. It had 190
payouts of at least $1 million, compared with 94 for more-populous California,
111 for Texas and 73 for Pennsylvania. The million-dollar cases accounted for 20
percent of losses in Florida, Aon said.

At the other end of the chart was Minnesota. Only 2 percent of its claims came
from million-dollar cases, and the per-bed cost of claims is forecast to be only
$1,500 next year.

The number of claims per hospital bed in Florida has fallen every year since
2002, hitting 2.8 claims last year, Larcher said. That's still above the
national average of 2.6, he noted.

In Minnesota, the average claim payment is similar to other states, Larcher
said, but the rate of claims per bed is 0.5, he said.

One conclusion Aon drew from its results is that changes in laws in Florida,
Pennsylvania and Texas in 2003 triggered the reduction in claims frequency.

That year, Florida capped jury awards for "pain and suffering" at $500,000 for
doctors and $750,000 for hospitals, except in cases resulting in death or severe
and permanent injury. In those, the caps are $1 million for doctors and $1.5
million for hospitals.

The Florida Medical Association also subsequently won passage of a
constitutional amendment that limits the payout to the patient's attorney in a
successful case.

Tampa litigator Lee Gunn thinks Aon is off-base in tying the slowdown in claims
to the 2003 legislative changes.

"The 2003 Legislature certainly created a greater barrier than ever for those
victims of medical negligence who are seeking access to the courts that all
citizens of our state are constitutionally entitled to receive," Gunn said. But
it's just one of many factors in the "chilling effect on the ability of
patient-victims to seek compensation," such as the tremendous expense and time
involved for the attorney.

Previous academic studies at Harvard University and elsewhere found most medical
negligence didn't lead to legal claims, let alone payouts.

The Aon study did not try to figure out which major complications and patient
deaths may have involved negligence, but it found that "only a small fraction"
led to claims. Nationally, in 10,000 patient admissions, there would typically
be 600 deaths and major complications, but only five paid claims, the study
found.

(CHART) LIABILITY COSTS STILL HIGH

Florida hospitals' cost for legal fees and payouts has moderated but is still
the highest in nation, projected at $7,000 per bed next year. Minnesota is
lowest.

Fla. $7,000

Ohio $5,200

Texas $4,100

N.C. $4,100

Calif. $3,700

Pa. $3.500

Va. $3,200

Minn. $1,500

(Tribune graphic)

Reporter Carol Gentry can be reached at (813) 259-7624 or cgentry@tampatrib.com.

Copyright Â© 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


