                              445 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday
                                  Pune Edition

Recent GR enabled survivor to be treated at private hospital

BYLINE: Malathy Iyer | TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 388 words


When the 23-year-old photojournalist was taken to Jaslok Hospital on Peddar Road
late on Wednesday evening,it was perhaps the first time that a rape survivor's
entire medical examination took place in a private hospital.Till the April
government resolution,rape survivors were sent to public or government hospitals
for medical examination;procedures like medico-legal examination,collection of
evidence,documentation were considered the responsibility of public hospital
doctors only.Social activists had long protested against the inconvenience to
survivors,especially because they would have to travel from a suburb to a
state-run hospital in south Mumbai.Such delay could jeopardise the health of the
victim and lead to loss of potential medico-legal evidence,the activists
said.Moreover,they added that the Section 164 A of the CrPC in 2005 allowed any
registered medical practitioner to conduct the medical examination and insisted
that he/ she must provide immediate medical care.On Thursday,it was the first
time a patient of sexual assualt was provided with medico-legal examination as
well as treatment at a private hospital in Mumbai.The photojournalist's
paperwork and samples were collected at Jaslok Hospital itself and sent to the
Kalina Forensic Sciences Laboratory.She was also given preventive medication."In
a government resolution dated May 10,it has been stated that rape survivors can
access any hospital based on their convenience for the examination and
treatment," police surgeon Dr S M Patil told TOI.Dr Patil said Jaslok Hospital
was the first to do the procedure in the private sector.Sangeeta Rege of NGO
CEHAT (Centre for Enquiry into Health & Allied Themes) said Jaslok Hospital has
now paved way for other private hospitals to a ensure that survivors of sexual
assault get comprehensive healthcare services at the hospital of their
choice."It is indeed heartening to see that treatment of survivor was
prioritised and no unneccesary demand was made for police requisition for a
medical examination to the survivor," she said.Criminal Law Amendment,April 2013
For the first time,various forms of sexual assault-oral,anal and penetrative
sex-have been mentioned Acid attacks and stalking also included as separate IPC
offences No hospital,whether private or public,can deny treatment to rape
survivors

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


