                              498 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                  May 11, 2014

The battle for Blackrock Clinic

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 780 words


A fund controlled by British financial tycoon Chris Hohn has moved to seize
control of a vital stake in the Blackrock Clinic, Ireland's largest private
hospital.

TCI, a multibillion-euro fund, had initially backed Blackrock founders Joseph
Sheehan and John Flynn in buying up loans related to the hospital from Irish
Bank Resolution Corporation (IBRC) earlier this year. However, in a dramatic
move, it has now called in the loans in a bid to gain control of a crucial stake
in the hospital.

Both Flynn and Sheehan have launched legal actions to oppose the deal, *The
Sunday Business Post*has learned.

Due to a complex guarantee structure, Sheehan's loans, which TCI now has control
over, could unlock the hospital's ownership structure. The deal could also allow
TCI to buy the shares from the hospital's other shareholders, including beef
magnate Larry Goodman, to potentially sell the highly profitable private
hospital.

TCI had set up a Irish corporate vehicle with Sheehan and Flynn to buy the EUR
23.4 million in loans. Since then, TCI has moved to seize full contorl of the
holding company.

Late last week, lawyers acting for Sheehan submitted papers to pursue a $100
million damages case against TCI. Flynn had already pulled out of the
consortium, due to a clause in the deal with the IBRC which would have forced
him to drop a number of legal actions.

Now a legal bid by Flynn to thwart the deal in a US court, due to strings
attached insisting that any successful bidder would have to drop a legal action
against agencies of the state, could play a vital role in the hospitals future.

Any deal on the Blackrock loans has to be approved by a US court as part of the
IBRC's Chapter 15 bankruptcy protection in the US, which the bank sought last
year to protect any loans related to US parties.

Delaware action

In a Delaware court this week, Flynn is planning to object to the deal due to a
clause which forced him to pull out of the proceedings, as he was unwilling to
drop a multimillion-euro legal action against Nama.

The loans, which were originally taken out by Sheehan, are crucial to control of
the hospital which has been the subject of internal wrangling for years.

Despite rows about its ownership, complex shareholder agreements and
multimillion-euro offers to buy the hospital, the shareholders in the clinic,
who include Sheehan, Flynn and beef baron Larry Goodman, have remained at an
impasse for years.

The TCI backed consortium had agreed a deal to buy Sheehan's loans in the
hospital, which stood at about EUR 16 million, alongside loans related to George
Duffy, which stood at about EUR 8 million, for more than par-value through an
Irish corporate vehicle. However, Duffy has since paid down his loans.

The ownership structure of the hospital has been brought into sharp focus due to
Denis O'Brien's interest in the Irish private healthcare market - the
billionaire was an underbidder for the Blackrock loans and recently took control
of the Beacon Private Hospital in Sandyford.

On the back of strong financial results, the Blackrock Clinic has attracted
attention from bidders on a number of occasions. However, due to a complex
agreement between shareholders, all the hospital's backers must consent if any
one shareholder wants to sell to a third-party, which led to the breakdown of a
potential deal when an international consortium made an offer of EUR 175 million
to buy the clinic in 2012.

Flynn led a number of former Anglo clients, including Sheehan, in a complex case
against the National Asset Management Agency under the auspices of the Rico act,
a well-known US law which was put on the statute books to deal with organised
crime, ''fraudulent interest charges, threatening enforcement of fraudulent
personal guarantees, and threatening seizures of assets and properties  .

In January a judge in Delaware also cleared the way for a group of former Anglo
Irish Bank borrowers to pursue a civil racketeering case against Nama, its chief
executive Brendan McDonagh and the former Anglo Irish Bank chairman Sean
FitzPatrick. Nama has said it    will defend the matter fully  .

While Sheehan has dropped the legal action to push through the Blackrock deal,
Flynn is unwilling to abandon the case, in which he is seeking more than EUR 30
million in damages. Instead Flynn stepped back from the consortium that agreed a
deal to buy the EUR 23.4 million debt related to the hospital and is now seeking
to block the deal.

.....

**By the numbers**

**EUR 23.4 m**Blackrock Clinic loans being sold by the IBRC

**EUR 175 m**the offer from an international consortium to buy the hospital in
2012

**EUR 30 m**the damages being sought by John Flynn as part of his civil Rico
case

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


