                              54 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

Trauma center cases discharged;
Bay area hospitals will stop court challenges against new competitors in Pasco,
Manatee

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



HIGHLIGHT:Â Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are
dropping legal challenges against newer trauma centers.


Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are dropping
legal challenges against trauma centers at Blake Medical Center in Manatee
County and Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point in Pasco County.

The moves Friday by Tampa General Hospital, Bayfront Medical Center in St.
Petersburg and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa were expected after an
administrative law judge last month approved a new state rule for determining
where trauma centers could be allowed across the state.

That rule includes a scoring system that takes into account several factors in
determining whether new trauma centers should be approved.

A representative for the plaintiff hospitals declined to comment on the move
when reached Monday.

The Tampa Bay-area hospitals waged long-running fights against the Manatee
County and Pasco County trauma centers, which the state Department of Health
allowed to open in 2011.

But after the new rule was approved in June by Administrative Law Judge R. Bruce
McKibben, attorneys said it likely would be difficult for the Tampa Bay-area
hospitals to win the legal challenges.

UF Health Shands in Gainesville also had challenged a new trauma center at Ocala
Regional Medical Center. UF Health Shands already dropped its case after the
McKibben ruling.

Parts of the hospital industry have been embroiled in legal battles for about
three years about the trauma-center approval process.

Those battles have focused heavily on Department of Health decisions to allow
trauma centers to open at Ocala Regional, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point
and Blake Medical Center. All are affiliated with the HCA health care chain.

Judges found that an earlier rule used to approve those trauma centers was
invalid. But the Department of Health wrote the new rule that McKibben approved.

Trauma centers have the specialized staff and equipment to treat severely
injured patients. But older, established health care concerns haven't wanted to
compete with newer providers.

The legal battle was as much about the business of health care; trauma doctors
and staff need a certain volume of patients, up to 1,000 yearly, to keep up
their expertise and pay the bills.

A report by the American College of Surgeons on Florida's trauma system said
existing trauma centers have a clear financial incentive to keep new hospitals
out of the pool.

The hospitals that operate older trauma centers say having more centers dilutes
the pool of patients and also causes a strain on available medical specialists.

The newer centers, at hospitals affiliated with HCA, responded that the increase
in Florida's residents and visitors justifies the need.

TRAUMA, Page 5

Three Tampa Bay-area hospitals filed notices last week that they are dropping
legal challenges against trauma centers at Blake Medical Center in Manatee
County and Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point in Pasco County.

The moves Friday by Tampa General Hospital, Bayfront Medical Center in St.
Petersburg and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa were expected after an
administrative law judge last month approved a new state rule for determining
where trauma centers could be allowed across the state.

That rule includes a scoring system that takes into account several factors in
determining whether new trauma centers should be approved.

A representative for the plaintiff hospitals declined to comment on the move
when reached Monday.

The Tampa Bay-area hospitals waged long-running fights against the Manatee
County and Pasco County trauma centers, which the state Department of Health
allowed to open in 2011.

But after the new rule was approved in June by Administrative Law Judge R. Bruce
McKibben, attorneys said it likely would be difficult for the Tampa Bay-area
hospitals to win the legal challenges.

UF Health Shands in Gainesville also had challenged a new trauma center at Ocala
Regional Medical Center. UF Health Shands already dropped its case after the
McKibben ruling.

Parts of the hospital industry have been embroiled in legal battles for about
three years about the trauma-center approval process.

Those battles have focused heavily on Department of Health decisions to allow
trauma centers to open at Ocala Regional, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point
and Blake Medical Center. All are affiliated with the HCA health care chain.

Judges found that an earlier rule used to approve those trauma centers was
invalid. But the Department of Health wrote the new rule that McKibben approved.

Trauma centers have the specialized staff and equipment to treat severely
injured patients. But older, established health care concerns haven't wanted to
compete with newer providers.

The legal battle was as much about the business of health care; trauma doctors
and staff need a certain volume of patients, up to 1,000 yearly, to keep up
their expertise and pay the bills.

A report by the American College of Surgeons on Florida's trauma system said
existing trauma centers have a clear financial incentive to keep new hospitals
out of the pool.

The hospitals that operate older trauma centers say having more centers dilutes
the pool of patients and also causes a strain on available medical specialists.

The newer centers, at hospitals affiliated with HCA, responded that the increase
in Florida's residents and visitors justifies the need.

Trauma

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


