                              69 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       May 28, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: "Five Strokes" Lead Law "Five Into the" Light
"Tomorrow"

LENGTH: 1151  words


May 28 -- In recent years, Shangsi County People's Court "Care tomorrow, the
Franco-Prussian first" Youth Legal Education Program as an opportunity to "for
children, for the future, for hope" for the idea, will strengthen the juvenile
legal education, shaping adolescent behavior norms, maintenance of youth the
legitimate rights and interests as an important task, focus on good legal
education and daily education, school education combining articles, build a
working mechanism normalization of legal education, long-term working mechanism
of juvenile justice, legal education work platform diversification comprehensive
education system, to promote the county's young people to enhance the legal
awareness, improve legal literacy, prevent and reduce juvenile crime, to further
safeguard the legitimate interests of young people make a positive contribution.



Organized "Legal classroom," so the law "ear." School students to acquire
knowledge of the park, but also universal law judge positions, since 2010, the
hospital will send a high level of business, strong communication skills to all
secondary schools young judge as vice president of the legal system, in addition
to providing education to school minors outside the legal measures, but also to
"a growing concern spiritual sowing a bright future" as the theme, regularly or
irregularly held "legal classroom" activities, through a combination of legal
interpretation and case studies, the students revealed due to the weak legal
concepts and embarked on the road of serious criminal damage, guide students to
continue to enhance the legal awareness. The hospital passed "ruled by law"
concept, but also by the school's welcome and praise. For secondary schools
located in remote rural and inaccessible features, the hospital started in 2012
is still "legal class township campus", went to nine schools held in "Legal
classroom", 75% of the county's high school coverage, nearly 8,000 students
benefit from it.

Implementation of the "Open Day" so that the law "eyes." People's Court as the
final barrier to maintain fairness and justice, to resolve social
contradictions, the most faithful executor of the law, the court has become the
perception into the law, an effective way to learn the law. 2012 onwards, the
hospital to create a "sun of justice" demonstration units as the carrier,
vigorously carry out "public open day" activities, the initiative to invite the
students to visit the court filing hall, round the courtroom, Liao Wei heroic
deeds exhibition rooms and other hardware facilities and witnessed the courtroom
scene to attend the trial, and thus have a better understanding of the law, the
courts have a better perception of judges has been further recognized. Since
2012, the hospital held "open day" 12 times, so that the angle of more than 600
students and more feel the atmosphere of the court, direct contact with the
judges to decide cases, prompting them to consciously establish legal awareness,
enhance legal awareness, and improve consciously resist crime awareness and
ability to protect themselves.

Carry out "moot court," so that the law "into the brain." Young people desire
new things is always full of Discovery and plasticity, legal advocacy for
innovative models that popularization activities to achieve a multiplier effect,
the hospital in April 2014 with the County Board of Education, the county
Women's Federation, Mission County and other departments jointly launched "Moot
Court into the campus" activities for students to play judges, prosecutors,
lawyers, bailiffs and other roles analog hearing the case, to enhance the study
of law in the nurture, respect for law, law-abiding awareness, prevention at
source, reduce juvenile crime groups . Currently, the hospital has successively
to the county school, county national high school to carry out "moot court into
the campus" activities, including nearly 200 female students in the class,
including Yao more than 2,000 students got a good legal education. Since the
Franco-Prussian significant effect, the hospital plans to all secondary schools
in the county during the year were carried out more than once, "Moot Court"
campaign, carried out at least once each month after the Moot Court into the
campus annual campaign to become institutionalized.

Strengthen departmental interaction, so that the law "into the heart." All
along, the hospital has always insisted the trial in adolescents' education,
supplemented by punishment "approach, focusing on both the legal deterrent for
juvenile offenders, but also to strengthen the warmth of probation for juvenile
offenders, in order to raise awareness of the law and reduce the recurrence of
crime rate. Therefore, the hospital not only implement the "Roundtable court"
system and the "helpers visit" system, still in individual cases, particularly
invite the county Women's Federation, Communist Youth League, schools and other
departments to the jury the identity of participants in the proceedings or
participate in court proceedings, with its rich youth work experience to guide
the correct treatment of juvenile offenders fault, regain confidence in life.
Such as May of this year, the hospital together in accepting a minor robbery
case, that the defendant Weimou chronic lack of family discipline, there is no
legal guardian of the child, after full consultation with Weimou opinion, invite
the county as acting deputy secretary of the Communist Youth League guardian and
after the legal situation in hand with patience and persuasion, let Weimou
mistakes and eventually reached the confession, the purpose regimens achieved
double-effect unification of the legal and social effects.

Build an interactive platform for the law "to start." As information technology
and network of depth, computers, mobile phones and other new media is rapidly
becoming an important means of youngsters exploring new knowledge, but also
became the court an important platform for dissemination of legal knowledge.
2010, 2012, the hospital has established a portal and official microblogging
minors in their spare time, as long as the click of a mouse you can browse the
courts dynamic case Letters, referee instruments and other information, but also
through online trial Graphic Live, watch the whole court case a major case. In
2014, the hospital and public micro-channel came into being, and adds real-time
interactivity, young people studying legal issues encountered in life, can be in
the "You asked me answer" questions the plate in a message, micro-channel
management After collecting and then answer the question classification before a
judge to make legal work more convenient, timely, and effective. According to
incomplete statistics, hospital information platform above three were released
in 2013, more than 300 kinds of information, live court cases 33 times,
attracting more than 1,600 long-term concern fans.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


