                              86 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday

Idaho Supreme Court says legal malpractice claim could be assigned

BYLINE: Pat Murphy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348  words


State law permits the assignment of a legal malpractice claim in connection with
the transfer of a former client's assets and liabilities, the Idaho Supreme
Court has ruled in answering a certified question from a U.S. District Court.

The lawyer in the case defended a hospital in a wrongful discharge case. During
the course of the employment action, the hospital became dissatisfied with the
lawyer's performance and retained other counsel. The hospital was subsequently
sold to the plaintiff. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the assets and
liabilities of the hospital were transferred to the plaintiff.

After settling the employment case for $4.25 million, the plaintiff filed a
legal malpractice suit against the lawyer as the hospital's assignee.

The lawyer argued that the plaintiff could not step into the shoes of the
hospital because applicable Idaho law prohibits the assignment of legal
malpractice claims.

But the state supreme court concluded that the general rule against assignment
does not apply to a commercial transaction under which a business' assets and
liabilities are transferred.

"[F]ar from being an arms-length bidder, [the plaintiff] was intimately
connected to the litigation leading to the claim, and did little to restructure
the hospital after acquiring it, beyond changing its name. It thus makes sense
to treat [the plaintiff] as [the hospital's] successor, and not a stranger, when
assessing the propriety of the assignment. Logically, given that [the plaintiff]
assumed the obligations under the [employment] litigation, it certainly should
have the rights attendant to that assumption -- which would include the right to
recoup any malpractice losses that impacted the value of the consideration it
received under the [asset purchase agreement]," the court said.

Idaho Supreme Court. St. Luke's Magic Valley Regional Medical Center v. Luciani,
No. 39315. Jan. 23, 2013. Lawyers USA No. 993-3776.

<a href="http://www.lawyersusaonline.com/be-the-first-to-know/">Click here for
more from this resource. </a>

Â© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

